<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Preparations</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Preparations</span></h1></header>
<p>
The atmospheric thinning statistics coming back from Maarsoly were much worse than the climate 
models had predicted. Orus-4 was dying much faster than expected. 
Orus-4, or Maarsoly as Orussians referred to it was a small tera-formed planet where an originally 
Cirussian fauna had evolved into uniquely Maarsolian reptilians and mammals.  
The lakes of south Maarsoly had even become the habitat of an oddly exotic aquatic mammal that had 
recently been qualified as a high potential pre-civ species.  
</p><p>
The Maarsolian fauna, and especially this pre-civ species needed to be preserved. 
Climate science was still in its infancy when Maarsoly was tera-formed. 
The planet turned out to be fundamentally to small to sustain a type B atmosphere. 
Generations of climate scientists had used every trick in the book to slow the thinning 
of the atmosphere, but now a critical threshold was reached and thinning was accelerating. 
The planet was loosing its atmosphere, there were no tera-plants close enough for a new type-B 
atmosphere injection, and thus the only way to save most of the planets rich fauna would be 
bio-migration.
</p><p>
Uriella and Inoatar had 40 standard days left until the climate engineer that was to 
be attached to her station would arrive.

Uriella had gathered the genetic material of over 3000 species unique to her quadrant of
the forest planet. The whole southeastern sub-tropic was to be turned into Maarsolian grasslands.
Grasslands on Orus-3! And after the bio migration that grassland would house mammals. Mammals! 
After 14 standard years on the forest planet inhabited mostly by insects and slimy slugs a 
welcoming thought. 
</p><p>
A lot had happened since the Lilith incident. The guilds master bio scientists had discovered the
 problem that caused the Lilith rebellion.There was a major and fundamental flaw
in the RELI-gen that allowed slight non fatal mutations to it to trigger a dynamic
re-imprint from Orussians back to the original Maarsolian ants queen reverence. 
The Lilith workers had re-imprinted on their queen mother, and had at one point perceived all 
Orussians to pose opposition to their queen goddess.

Scientists were working hard at a fix for the RELI gen, but until a fix
was found ant-monkey queens were prohibited. All forty queens on Scayune had been
ordered by the interstellar Senate to be incinerated. 
</p><p>
For Uriella this meant that she could welcome Inoatar back without any worries. 
Last spring Inoatar had ran into one of the many signs she had left at each of the deep forest 
checkpoints. Consequently he had returned to the science station where Uriella had welcomed her 
back. The preparations for the bio migration gave Inoatar a great opportunity to put his 
engineering skills to good use.  
</p><p>
Incubation and Relocation Capsules were normally build on Cirus-prime, but Cirus 
was a good 6 standard light-years from Orus. This meant Cirussian capsules would not 
reach the planet in time. 

Uriella had to design and build IRCs from spare parts. Inoatar had picked up
pretty quickly on Uriella's IRC design. The speed with what Inoatar was able
to build new IRCs and the Inoatars ability to come up with minor design
 chances when he ran out of a specific part kept amazing Uriella. A good thing too,
as major climate engineering efforts were to start in 120 standard days so
time was short.
</p><p>
Raphaels accommodation were almost finished. Although the big problems 
Uriella expected with respect to her usage of the GENO virus were no longer
to be feared, there were still some issues with how Raphael might
react. It was clear from Inoatars behavior that his RELI gen was inactive. 
Raphael might report this but with all queens dead, it was very unlikely there would any 
substantial consequences either to him or to Inoatar.

The real issue was that Uriella and Raphael would need to work together for a real 
long time. If Raphael would have a continued problem with Inoatars existence, how could
they work together effectively. There was so  much work to do in so little time.

A planet was dying, and without their intervention, many many thousands unique and valuable 
species. Uriella and Raphael had to work as a team from day one. Inoatar was Uriella's
true friend and was indispensable as an IRC builder in these times of crises. 
They would need to finish all the IRCs before Raphael arrived. 

Inoatar had to once again disappear into the woods, it pained her, but once again there was to 
much at stake. 
</p>
</section></body></html>
