<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Paradise</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Paradise</span></h1></header>
<p>
The ant-monkey revolt in south Uhm city was exactly the opportunity that Lucius
had been preparing for. Lucius knew he himself wouldn't have long to enjoy it, 
Lucius was quite old , but next to that, like many Dammons he was old beyond his years. 
Years he had slaved for the mining guild in their dreaded Carbon mines before being
replaced by ant-monkeys. Unlike many other Dammons, Lucius was to proud to beg for scrapings. 
He was a thief, and a damn good one at that. Better to steal and be proud than to beg and
abandon his pride. Lucius was a Cherubian and a proud one at that. 
Before becoming a Damon, Lucius was a level 7 trading guild guild master. For a short moment
even Lucius was a senate representative. But politics are a dangerous mistress indeed.
Lucius had been granted full settlement powers by the senate, so when the senate
asked him to take care of the south-Uhm housing problem. 
</p><p>
Against interstellar guidelines, Lucius decreeded a new settlement on Orus-3. 
Big mistake. He underestimated the bio engineering guilds influence in the senate. 
The Bio's had laid claim to Orus-3 and used all their political influence to hold on to it.
Being a true Cherubian, Lucius remained strong behind his principles. South Uhm
was build to house 10 million settlers, no more. Building new houses closer to the dam
wasn't an option. The surface temperature near the dam rose to unacceptable levels in the
boiling-sea periods during high summer. No way he would subject Orussians to such
circumstances. But things didn't go as Lucius decreeded. Not only did those damn Bio's
manage to get his senate mandate revoked, they even managed to get his fellow guild
members to disband him and his entire clan from the trading guild. Lucius had fallen
from the very top of the food-chain to the very bottom. And now, not only had
the city expanded so much that streets were built against the dam, outcasts like himself
had to live inside the boiling hot wall. At least working in the dangerous Carbon mines got
the Dammons access to thermo-suits. After ant-monkey introduction however, Dammons
were no longer needed in the mines, and after all these years many thermo-suits
would now often start to malfunction. If such a malfunction happened while asleep, a Damon
would die of dehydration within one standard hour.
</p><p>
Something had to be done for the Dammons, and this ant-monkey uprising provided just
the opportunity. In fact, Lucius had a big hand in the uprising. He had discovered
the nest when the first generation were only just eggs. He had
kept Attame alive in her hostile dam housing feeding her stolen apples and he had 
educated her offspring into the art of pickpocketing.
</p><p>
Julius could not believe his luck when he discovered that, just like the Lilith incident,
Attame's offspring had imprinted on its queen. Lucius had set himself up as Attame's high priest, 
preparing the young pickpocketing ant-monkeys for a holy war against the false gods of Uhm. 
Lucius was not expecting his plan to commence until next year when many more generation would
be functionally mature. He had constructed a believe system around their 'goddess queen father'
where they would be waiting for a sign from their goddess to start their holy war on.
</p><p>
To his surprise however, the younglings were so eager for a sign from their goddess
father that they had triggered prematurely.
Fortunately Lucius was a prudent planner so most preparations had been in place, 
unfortunately however there were only four trade ships docked to the trading guilds
docking station instead of the maximum capacity of seven that Lucius had planned
for. Four trade ships, each housing 10.000  Dammons and everything needed for creating
a settlement on Orus-3. Lucius was about to get his revenge on all the guilds
that wronged him. And he and his clan, together with 32000 other Dammons were about to
start a new settlement on what compared to the great dam was nothing less than
paradise. 
</p>
</section></body></html>
