<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Depths</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Depths</span></h1></header>
<p>
What do you mean 'transplanting a small sea to Woldera'? 
We are dealing with delicate ecosystems! With all due respect, have you considered
all the possible problems that could create for both eco systems?
This was the kind of response Raphael had gotten used to in his many years as climate engineering  
within the bio engineering guild. Climate engineers were looked upon as trouble
makers by much of the bio engineering guild. Some even suggested openly that climate
engineers had no place calling themselves bio engineering guild members. 
No-one would state such words in the presence of a guild master like himself, 
but in time that he was still only a level 3 member, these word often came to ear.
</p><p>
Aldrich was a respected level 3 guild member that had the misfortune of completing his promotional mission at a bad time. In other times Aldrich would have long been assigned a
master post on Uhm. If only it hadn't been for the quarantine. Relations between the bio
engineering guild and the mining guild had grown to be rather delicate since the bio engineering 
guild had been forced to cease ant-monkey production. Aldrich while being one of the smartest
and most respected bio scientist within the guild had been known for being less than
diplomatic at times. A trait that at this point in time kept him stuck on this watery moon
and kept him from a well deserved master of the guild title. 
Aldrich wasn't the kind of person to be pressed by the delay. In fact, he had gotten so attached to this watery rock and its rich marine life, that he wasn't sure he was ready to return to civilization.
</p><p>
Mara was a relatively big sea-moon for a mid sized class B planet like the forest planet Orus-3.  
There wasn't any land mass anywhere on Mara.  The science base on Mara was a medium sized standard
sea-dome that housed four guild members, Aldrich being the most senior. Mara had a relatively
rich variety of sea-life for a sea-moon. It had exotic forms of most well known sea fauna categories.
There was even a large family of predatory fish unlike any species on any of the four famous Agma 
systems sea planets. Aldrich was proud of his Mara. He had singlehandedly categorized the
genomes of all of the ten thousands of sea species on Mara before the council sent him 3 assistants 
to help with the paperwork.
</p><p>
While all was on short notice, Raphael had prepared well for his visit to Mara.
Maarsoly was dying and Woldera held to few large bodies of water to sustain many
of Maarsoly's species, especially the pre-civ species. 
If the guild allowed a pre-Civ species to go extinct, there would be political consequences 
that would dwarf the Lilith incident in its impact. The guild might loose all of its seats in 
senate. A guild without senate seats would, now that would be a blow.
</p><p>
Mara was the only viable option. Although Raphael outranked Aldrich, Aldrichs rank was due only 
to the current political circumstances.  Aldrich had the respect of many on the
guilds main council and if the RELI-gen research paid off, Aldrich would likely
be a member of the council long before Raphael. Thus the situation demanded respect
and patience. Mara and its marine life were precious to Aldrich, They would have
to be preserved, if not on Mara than on  Woldera. 
If on Woldera, than the transplanted sea would need to be bigger than what
he planned for initially and worse, it would have to keep its salinity levels.
Bio engineering wasn't an option here. Woldera had some nasty sweat water fish
and reptilians that would gladly have most of Aldrichs precious eco system
for breakfast. No Woldera would need a salt water sea of some size, some of Mara's
ecosystem shall need to move there. How can we work that in with the other plans?
</p><p>
We shall be combining 3 eco systems.
</p><p>
Madness! Aldrich exclaimed. 
</p><p>
There is much to think about indeed. Many factors to consider. I shall be
needing your extensive expertise on the Mara eco system on this one. It will
be a hard nut to crack, but with your expertise and that of the scientists on 
Woldera we must find a way to do it. A planet is dying and with it a whole
ecosystem. No need to remind me of that Aldrich responded. I'm fully aware of 
the urgency of the matter.
</p>
</section></body></html>
