<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Golden opportunities</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Golden opportunities</span></h1></header>
<p>
Gabriela had been working hard to get noticed, but now for the first time, a real
opportunity seemed truly within grasp. While she was still only a
level 2 member of the medical guild, and while she hated the foul stench of the ant-monkeys, 
the Lilith incident made Gabriela's post with the mining guild probably the best
level 2 post within her entire guild. 
She now had an opportunity to truly make a name for herself, and if she played her cards right,
she may not have to spent the 32 standard day period that constitutes the  southern Uhm
summer wearing a thermo-suit. Uhm, or Orus-2 as non-Orussians referred to it was the only 
planet in the Orus system that had truly been colonized, but it was also the least pleasant 
of the four life supporting planets in the system. Orus 5, or Scayune as Orussians
referred to it also had something of a population, but nothing compared to the
metropolitan area on south Uhm.
South Uhm  city was the most densely populated city on Uhm.
Officially it had about one hundred million inhabitants, but those were just the official counts.
Only guild members and aspirant guild members from the guild clans were counted as
citizens. The medical guild was the only guild that recognized the existence
of the non-citizens dwelling the great dam. 
According to the medical records kept by the guild, there would be something between forty and 
fifty million non citizens, or Dammons as they were often referred to,  living somewhere inside of 
or even in improvised structures on top of the city dam. 
</p><p>
The city dam was a large structure built to dam the artificial south-pole landmass from the 
south Uhmian sea, and was build to withstand the violently boiling southern sea 
during high summer, it was not built to house millions of people , in fact, the dam during 
summer officially was rated at 20 minutes. That is, according to the official safety protocol 
for dam maintenance workers, a summer shift could take no more than 20 minutes, and was to be 
followed by at least 12 hours of hydro-enhanced rest. 
Failure to follow the protocol could lead to severe dehydration and lasting heat scars. 
Thus living circumstances that were present for those millions of dam dwellers that spent 
most of their lives there were ideal for the guild to use as medical training ground
for their lower level members.

Gabriela was extremely disappointed when she didn't get assigned to a post near the
great dam. While the big dam was basically an oven, at least the Dammons were Orussians.
Instead she was assigned a post at the mining guild, working with those vile
smelling ant-monkeys.

The Lilith incident however made her position with the mining
guild so much more desirable. 
</p><p>
After the Lilith incident
all the Orus-5 breeding plants got quarantined. Nobody knew for how long. Possibly indefinitely.
As ant-monkeys were rather cheap, medical care wasn't a prime priority for the mining
guild until recently. But now that the Scayune ant-monkey production was unavailable to the guild,
keeping the existing stock alive and healthy had become a prime priority.
So much so that Gabriela's  guild master would need to take some level 2 members with her this 
summer to handle all the paperwork.

Orus-2 was mostly a dessert planet. Its proximity to the Orus star made most of the planet
to hot for settlement. Only at the poles could settlements exist. This meant however
that while winters in south Uhm city were without sunlight, they were the most bearable
season. Summers in south Uhm city were hot. Extremely hot. Especially close to the Dam.
The Uhmian elite either lived far from the dam, close to the ultimate south, or migrated 
to one of the two north-pole cities for sumer. 

The richest would spent summer in the city of Ga. Others like her guild master would continue
their work on Lot peninsula. If she played her cards right, she would be joining
her master when he and the mining guild masters moved to Lot to
escape the southern summer season.
</p>
</section></body></html>
