<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Mixed feelings</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Mixed feelings</span></h1></header>
<div class="block-rw extract-rw">
<p>"The ultimate chalenge to bio-engineering lies in the realization that our ability to create new forms out of old equilibrium inevitably initiates an evolutionary movement away from both the new form and the old equilibrium. " </p>
<p class="source-rw">—Ursang III, level 8 bio-guild master</p>
</div>
<p>
After Inoatar disappeared  into the woods, Uriella felt a mixture of loss and of relieve.
Inoatar was so much more than a pet. After 12 standard years of solitude in her small Woldera 
based science station this ant-monkey had become an unlikely but true friend. 
His disappearance into the woods after Uriella explained him the full impact of the Lilith incident only proofed how deep their friendship truly went.
When the reports about the incident reached the small southeast Woldera science station, 
Uriella's relationship with Inoatar had become a course for serious worries. 
Worries about her own survival but most of all worries about her family and clan.
Ant-monkeys had been bred on Scayune by the bio-guild for the cheap labor they could provide. 
It all seemed like such a perfect match. </p><p>
The in stature almost Orussian child like Maarsolian apes were relatively intelligent and had 
sufficient intellectual and physical potential for performing non trivial tasks. 
They lacked however any concept of hierarchy and any structural cooperative interaction beyond the 
base matriarchal family pack hunting cooperation patterns. 
Adult apes violently rejected any type of authority. Wolderian ants on the other hand, 
although lacking any level of intelligence were amazingly organized to such an extend that a Wolderian ants nest with its tens of thousands of worker ant, was not that much different in structure 
from the ancient patriarchally organized city states on Cirus-prime. 
Wolderian ants were like the cells in an Orussian's body. 
Every ant knew only to play its part, but the whole nest acted almost like a single 
semi-intelligent single organism. So when the bio guild started selling ant-monkey  workers to the cities on Uhm, and more importantly to the mining-guild, a golden age seemed to have arrived in 
the Orus system. </p><p> 
Inoatar was an ant-monkey male, not a worker, so just like all 
ant-monkey males, Inoatar's value for the guild ended after mating with a queen , 
usually at an age of somewhat more than one standard year. 
Males were given away by the guild as pets to highly regarded masters of other guilds and, as
in Uriella's case to relatives of council members if these were sent on solitary missions.
Uriella, by virtue of having an uncle on the guilds top council had received Inoatar as a pet 
to keep her company on Woldera.  While the forest planet Woldera had a rich and abundant fauna, 
the animals on Woldera were all but appealing to average Orussians. 
So having a companion with more agreeable features than the Wolderian insects , spiders, slugs, snakes and lizards, was a prospect that
would be welcomed by almost any guild members that were sent for a solitary standard 15 year mission. 
Uriella was privileged in this regard. Males were rare, a male, just like the queen that would produce a few thousand eggs each day for 5 consecutive standard years, mated only once . Ant-monkeys mating was quite a spectacle. It involved a single queen and a small handful of males. 
The spectacle would take a few hours and for the male ant-monkey it was not without peril. 
Inoatar had required quite some medical care in the first few weeks that he came into Uriella's 
possession. Mating injuries could be bad. They were never fatal, but lasting injuries had been 
reported.
</p><p>
But now things had changed drastically. The golden age for the Orus system and the
privileged position the guild enjoyed as sole supplier of ant-monkey workers
had come to an abrupt end. The Lilith incident changed everything. 
The Scayune ant-monkey breeding colonies had all been placed in quarantine 
after the Lilith colony ant-monkey uprising. The guilds bio engineers had
taken all the usual precautions for their ant-monkey genetic meta architecture.
The mythical guild master Ursang III, the first Bio to ever secure a place in the senate,
had been the spiritual father of what had become the power-base for the bio-guild. 
The Regressive Evolution Life Inhibitor (RELI) technology allowed the guild to work around the 
four laws of equilibrium that would normally have well designed life forms within just four or five generations evolve into a species that could have dangerously different properties than those 
initially designed. Ursang III had created the concept of a RELI-gen. A gen that effectively
stopped new equilibrium from occurring by crudely stopping evolution itself.
Potentially dangerous animals like the ant monkey were imprinted genetically to not harm Orussian in any way and to protect them if they perceived any danger to an Orussian.
For ant-monkey workers, the natural reverence of Wolderian ants towards their queen had been used 
as basis for their Orussian imprints.  
The designs were created with multiple major vital functions tied to their RELI-gen.
So for the ant-monkeys, with the imprinted RELI-gen ensuring unquestioning reverence of all 
their Orussian masters, and with the vital function bindings to the RELI gen ensuring an early 
death for larvae with a RELI gen that was in any way mutated,the Scayune incident
where ant-monkeys slaughtered more than two thousand guild members defied
 all logic.
</p><p>
Before the incident, Uriella's use of a geno virus on Inoatar would at worst 
have gotten her assigned next to a level 4 post in south Uhm city central, rather than to the 
assistant post in the north Uhm city of Ga that her uncle had worked so hard to ensure her. 
Inoatar was after all just a single and now infertile male on a planet without queens and 
without settlements, and relatives of council members always got the benefit of the doubt.

But after the Scayune incident, the guild council was no doubt looking franticly
for a way out of the current  quarantine.
A level 3 bio engineer that was caught messing with a breeders RELI gen would make Uriella 
a more than perfect scapegoat .
</p><p>
Seven standard year ago , Uriella had already grown extensively fond of Inoatar. 
But Inoatar like any ant-monkey, could only answer Uriella's show of friendship with the 
unquestioning loyalty and reverence that came from the guilds patented RELI-gen technology.

While all guild members were screened extensively on their ability to cope with
solitude before being promoted to a solitary mission, and while Uriella had been around 
ant-monkeys most of her career,  somehow something about Inoatar was different.

Ant-monkeys, in order to be able to follow non trivial work orders were bio engineered 
to gain a reasonable understanding of the Orussian language. 
Most ant-monkeys however had conversational skills equal to that of a toddler. 
Inoatar had shown amazing conversational skills though,  equating almost those of an Orussian 
adolescent.

Next to his language skills, Inoatar had shown an understanding of engineering
that could probably have rivaled that of some of her less gifted classmates back in 
pre-guild that , even though they didn't make it to an apprentice position, included some 
of Uriella's best friends outside of the guild.

Inoatar was gifted mentally way beyond the basic level of his bio engineered
heritage. It was this that made it difficult for Uriella to accept Inoatar's
bio engineered reverence of her. Inoatar wasn't just a pet, he was a person like
her. Not Orussian, no, but still a person. A person though, as his RELI-gen  ensured,
without a glimmer of a free will. Uriella struggled with the moral 
implications of this realization for quite some time. Could she allow
a person to live a sub-Orussian existence being held hostage by his RELI gen into
an existence of pseudo-religious slavery?

On the other side she could not just ignore the stringent guidelines regarding
RELI-safety of bio engineered animals. Inoatar was sterile, but the four laws of
equilibrium left no doubt about the guilds deeply rooted fear for the dangers of 
natural new equilibrium.

Her training and logic went directly  against her deep feelings of friendship for this 
extraordinary creature that was more as a son to her than as a pet. In the end
emotion overcame logic and duty, and Uriella engineered a simple yet effective targeted geno
virus. Uriella was delighted to find that Inoatar with his new free-will gen activated accepted
her friendship and after a few years turned into the an almost Orussian companion. 
</p><p>
But now,after the reports
of the Lilith incident reached her, delight turned into despair. If the free-will
gen was discovered , Uriella would probably face the most severe punishment known to
the guild. Not only would Uriella herself  face the most lengthy and gruesome death 
conceivable, her entire clan , even her uncle on the council, would be expelled from 
the guild and be reduced to the lowest social standing in Orussian society.

They would be reduced to non-citizens: dam dwellers most probably.
A fate Uriella did not wish on anyone.

But now that Inoatar had disappeared into the endless Woldera woods, while she felt the
loss of never seeing her dear friend again, Uriella felt relieved. She knew Inoatar was
skilled enough to survive the Woldera forest and the endlessness of the  forest
combined with its often unfriendly wildlife made it very unlikely that his free-will gen
would ever get discovered by the guild.
</p>
</section></body></html>
