<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Omega &amp; Alpha</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Omega &amp; Alpha</span></h1></header>
<p>
Gabriela had arrived on Mara four days ago. She had been welcomed by Aldrich and his crew.
For the first few days until Uriella and Raphael joined them, Aldrich had been expressing
his discontent with the fact that she, a child in his eyes and a member of an
inferior guild was appointed as a member of the Archan council by Anaiis, while he
with all his knowledge about Mara was not. Yesterday Uriella and Gabriel had arrived, 
and now all were looking in anticipation how the vessel of the military attache
was docking in the surface docking station.
</p><p>
It would be one more standard hour before Michaels pod would reach the underwater
science station dome. Michaels reputation preceded him though. Michael was the fourth
and final member of the Archan counsel appointed
directly by Anaiis herself. The Archan council was appointed for one reason: dealing
with the ant-monkey infestation on Orus-3.
</p><p>
As Gabriela had predicted, Anaiis had dealt decisively with the ant-monkey crisis
on Orus-2. More decisively though than even she could ever have imagined. 
The interstellar senate had decreeded that "all" ant-monkeys be disposed off. 
Ant-monkeys had first brought down a breeding colony, and next brought
a large metropolis to its knees. And last, but for some senate members who still owned
one of the condo's on the Ga moor shoreline probably not least, ant-monkeys destroyed
massive real-estate value in Ga.
</p><p>
Anaiis had responded to this decreed as only a Cherubian could. She had ordered
Lot evacuated, and while the Lot evacuation was still far from finished, and while
in south Uhm city there were still tens of thousands registered citizens unevacuated
and many times that number of Dammons, Anaiis had ordered an all out military strike
against South-Uhm and Ga-moor. South-Uhm and Ga-Moor were hit with such an excess of
thermonuclear power that it was clear that nothing was left to chance. Nothing could 
have survived the blast.
</p><p>
Next she ordered the total obliteration of Scayune. Her military attache, Michael, carried
out both attacks. Uhm was now a dead planet, after the nuclear fallout even more of an inferno
than it was before. And with the remnant carbon deposits in Ga-More having been completely 
oxidized by the thermonuclear attack, Raphael had explained to her, the greenhouse effect 
would soon kick in.The poles won't ever again support colonization, Michael
made sure of that. And Scayune? Scayune is gone, obliterated. all that reminds
that Scayune ever existed is the fact that
there is now a long stretched  belt of debree between Orus-4 and Orus-6.
And guess what, the military attache that carried out all these brutal attacks is the same
Michael on his way to our dome that is to be chair our newly formed council. Sure
this was still Raphaels mission, but sending in Michael as chair did make one thing very clear 
to all the council: this was now a military mission.
</p><p>
Raphael as climate engineer was put in charge of sustainably saving as many
of the species of Woldera, Mara and Maarsoli as would at all be possible within
the confines of the military mission goals. Four trade-ships had been stolen by Dammons
during the south Uhm city crisis, and had been steered to Woldera. As it turned out, 
one of the ships on departure had been invested by ant-monkeys, so while
Anaiis could care less about a Dammon colony on Woldera, an ant-monkey infestation
on the forest world fell under her direct responsibility to carry out her prime directive. These and-monkeys had to be annihilated decisively, end of discussion. 
And judging from what she heard about Michael, even if she could convince him that ant-monkeys
may not be as dangerous as the senate has been made to believe, there would be little change 
that such knowledge would influence his determinance to carry out the missions military component
to the exact letter. Maybe if she got Uriella on her side. Uriella seemed to have a
great interest in what she worked out about ant-monkeys dual puberty phase,
and seemed to posses interesting theories regarding ant-monkey potential
if their RELI-gen would be disabled. If she didn't know how devoted bio's
are about their ideas of bio engineering security and their four laws of equilibrium, 
she would almost believe these were more than just theories. 
But even though their RELI gen has proofed to be defective, the idea of
a Bio creating a geno virus to disable it was just to far fetched. The ideas
Uriella opted were intriguing though. Would it be possible for Orussians
to peacefully work with 'free' ant-monkeys ? If so, releasing such
a virus on the Wolderian ant-monkey population may be a good alternative
to Raphael's idea of a great flood.
</p>
</section></body></html>
