<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Complications</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Complications</span></h1></header>
<p>
Uriella realized what happened the minute she saw the faces of the Maatsolian apes.
Maarsolian apes were plain-dwellers. Hunter gatherers that slept in solitary
trees on the planes. But these apes had build themselves a primitive agriculture
village. She was on patrol with Gabriela when they discovered the village. There
was no denying, these were hybrids.  Gabriela of all people would be the last one that 
could ever be convinced otherwise. 
It had been just twenty standard years since the flood. Four generations of Maarsolian apes
at most. Michael with his limited biological knowledge may be fooled by a theory that this 
occurred naturally as a response to adaptation to an other planet, but fooling Michael
would take a much better lier than Uriella knew herself to be. Gabriela,
well no change she would be fooled for even one second by such a ludicrous
hypothesis. 
</p><p>
These were hybrids, both Uriella and Gabriela knew that the first
second they spotted a village occupied by Maarsolian apes. But what Gabriela could
not have realized is what Uriella spotted immediately. These apes were clearly descendants from Inoatar.
Uriella had informed Inoatar of the old geo-engineering plans, but she had been on Mara from
the time the council was first assembled up until after the great flood. i
She had not had any opportunity to warn Inoatar about his impending doom, neither had she provided him with an
an Advanced Relocation Unit. Inoatar knew how to build an IRC but as Uriella knew for sure, 
Inoatar could not have extracted his own DNA and have operated the incubation unit by himself.
While DNA extraction was a skill that was easily acquired, operating the biological parts of an
incubator was a delicate skill that took even the most gifted Orussians decades to master. 
No, Inoatar must have figured out how to build an ARC all by himself.
It would have been hard to spot an ARC among all those thousands of IRCs even if
anyone was specifically looking for it. And nobody was looking for it.
</p><p>
Inoatar must have found himself a Maarsolian ape female and must have mated with her.
This meant that Uriella was wrong about the males, they too aparently went through a second puberty, aparently at a rather ripe age.
No other explanation possible for the striking resemblance : These are Inoatar
descendants. 
</p><p>
It was hard to predict how Raphael and Michael would react to the existence
of hybrids. Especially Michael. An agricultural community, even if it consisted of 
only one village under the revised guidelines for intercivilisational
relations constituted a primitive civilization.

The guideline explicitly forbad any direct contact between interstellar
civilizations and primitive civilizations. On the other hand, these hybrids were
part ant-monkey and he and the other Archans were under direct order to eradicate
'any trace of' spider-monkeys. Uriella was never that good at keeping up with interstellar law. 
Guild rules were that much simpler. But did the revised guidelines for 
intercivilisational contact overrule direct orders from the senate, or was
it the other way around. Uriella felt an undeniable urge to defend this village.
Decimating a village in order to adhere to some order from a senate light-years
from here went against everything Uriella believed in. And some of these apes
were so much akin to her old friend Inoatar, that the village felt like it was her own
family. No this village could not be decimated. Uriella would defend it at 
all cost. Even if it meant going against Michael. Michael still scared Uriella.
Michael was always so sure about the law and so dedicated to the chain of
command. How would Michael react? Should she come clean about her friend
and about her use of the geno virus? 
Yes she would have to tell everyone what she had done and what she knew.
And if needed she would die defending this village. That much she owed her old
friend.
</p>
</section></body></html>
