<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Probabilities</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Probabilities</span></h1></header>
<p>
Being the gifted general he was, Michael had anticipated Lucius's attack
on the moon-base and had delivered a deciding blow to the Dammon army. 
Many Dammons accepted Michaels offer of evacuation, but Lucius did
not. A little under seven hundred Dammons apparently remained
on the surface when Mara's large water-mass hit Woldera's surface. 
While Mara,s water-mass wasn't sufficient to turn Woldera in a real
sea-planet, the tidal wave that resulted from the impact of the big ball of water
swept the whole globe several times, removing any hope of survival for any fauna 
living on the surface. 
</p><p>
Although Michael had anticipated Lucius his strike, Lucius has impressed
him quite a bit. It was a bold attack and one that would have caught any general
other than Michael by surprise. And the attack had been more skilled than any
he had seen in the decades he served as a general. Had Lucius had the reflexes of
a younger man, his pod could have potentially have stopped the flood from happening, 
and could have destroyed the Mara based drone control hub. </p><p> 
Michael would have gladly offered Lucius clemency, but Lucius had returned to the
surface of the forest planet, apparently preferring certain death to the prospect
of evacuation to a different system.
</p><p>
Everything was proceeding as Raphael had designed it. After the devastating flood,
the water settled into large seas that covered about two thirds of the planets 
surface. While some woods stood strong, others had been swept away, leaving great
plains where Raphael ensured grasslands would soon emerge. 
Looking at the devastation from the flood it was hard to imagine
the plains would recover in time for the arrival of the Marsolian IRCs later that week.
First the Woldarian pods would return to what was left of the forests. Drones were
on the planet right now working hard on the salinity levels in the forests. The trees
may have survives the great flood, the trees could still die from the salt
left behind in the soil and surface waters if the drones did not clean it up quickly.
</p><p>
After the Wolderian IRCs, the Marian IRCs would repopulate the Marian sea that now
covered much of Woldera. The final touch would be the arrival of the Marsolian mammal IRCs.
Michael felt some remorse for the needless Dammon deaths. There was no way the Dammons had
survived the flood, or was there? Lucius showed increddable boldness and ingenuity in his 
attack on the moon station. A military mind of that increddable would have
a backup plan. 
</p><p>
Michael knew he had to report the possible survival of a small Dammon colony on Woldera
to the senate. The Archan council had to remain at the Mara science station for quite some
time as watchers. They needed to monitor the creatures hatched from the IRCs.
Their survival and health had to be monitored for quite some generations. If needed
fine-tuning should at least create a fair fighting chance for competing species
from the different ecosystems. But as much as these eco systems concerned his fellow Archans, 
Michael was a general first. His main concern as a watcher would be to watch out for signs of the 
unlikely possibility that any ant-monkeys survived the flood, and secondary, if he was right
about the senates priorities, as much as he hated the idea, he would need to watch 
out for all possible signs of a surviving Dammon colony. Michael knew that if Lucius survived, 
Lucius would realize the senate would have the planet watched and he and his company would be 
moving only in the shadows. For generations if needed.
He and any military attache appointed to the council after him would need to remain
really really watchful. Lucius had survived the flood, Michael was almost certain
of that now. A great military mind like Lucius always has a backup plan.
</p>
</section></body></html>
