<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Panic</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Panic</span></h1></header>
<p>
Gabriela had been working 20 hour shifts at the Lot hospital for 6 days now and there
seemed to come no end to the constant stream of seriously injured refugees from south Uhm city.
While some had wounds inflicted by Attame's, most major injuries were the result of ERC 
collisions and ERC landing failures. Every Orussian knew how to create a basic and safe 
Evacuation and Rescue Capsule in about one standard hour using nothing but a base computing unit,
a few guild capes, and some parts that were available in any propulsion based transportation
device. But how much difference it makes if an ERC needs to be constructed with
a dozen of crazed Attame's roaming the streets chanting "death to the false gods,
hail to our goddess, queen father Attame'.
</p><p>
While Attame's were all in development stages of children and adolescents, and
while an average adult spider-monkey would have only half the stature and half the 
intelligence of an adult Orussian, Orussians were a peaceful species and remembrance 
of the Lilith incident had Orussians opt for fleeing rather than fighting.
There were reports and rumors of spider-monkey attacks on schools and power-plants that supposedly
killed thousands of Orussians. These reports and rumors contributed gravely to the state of 
general panic within the dammed south Uhm city. 
</p><p>
Where spider-monkeys probably killed tens of thousands, the confirmed death count due to badly 
constructed ERCs had already exceeded a million. Combined with over two hundred thousand mid-air
collisions between capsules due to bad trajectory or sensor settings brought the
total death-count to almost 1.5 million. About 10% of that number had had come trough
one of Lots 3 small hospitals first. 
</p><p>
Each day ten thousand new patients were being brought in to a little hospital 
build to house only four thousand patients. Those that made it to the next day would
most probably survive, but more than half did not make the next day.Lot was a relatively
small town when compared to south Uhm City, 20.000 full-time inhabitants and two million
seasonal inhabitants that came to escape the hot south-pole summer. 
</p><p>
So far 50 million had made the ERC jump from the south-pole to the north-pole peninsula. 
Rations were running scarce real fast. Gabriela had trouble distinguishing facts
from rumors, but working 20 hour shifts at the hospital she picked up enough
to distinguish the outlines of what must have happened. A pet spider-monkey male named Attame
owned by a merchant guild guild master had disappeared into an section of the great dam a few years 
ago. Around that same time there had been reports of other missing pet ant-monkey
males but all of these showed up again after a few days. Seemingly unrelated there had
been rumors about a queens-nest in the outer dam but these came from Dammons,
the outcast dam dwellers. Officially Dammons did not exist so reports about unexplained
disappearances of Dammons and sightings of an ant-monkey queen had gotten the same status
as the many urban legends about the great dam.
</p><p>
One persistent urban legend was that Dammons breathed sulfur rather than oxygen.
A myth that probably found its inception from the fact that Dammons were used as
relatively cheap labor by the mining guild before the commercial
exploitation of ant-monkey workers soled by by the bio engineering guild. 
</p><p>
This time as it turned out, reality was worse than the myth. There was indeed
a queens-nest in a section of the dam, but a very different kind of queens-nest
than those that were exploited in the Scayune breeding colonies. This queen
wasn't just a queen, and its children weren't the regular workers and the occasional male.
No, the run away ant-monkey male apparently was gendermorphic and had transmorphed into a
 queen ant-monkey. Attame had mated with several pet ant-monkey males and had subsequently
turned into a queen, creating an ant-monkey colony. 
And to make matters worse, all of her offspring had re-imprinted on her just as what happened in 
the Lilith breeding colony many years before. Attame himself was hatched during the quarantine 
before the queen killings were ordered by the interstellar senate. Now Attame who as a male never
mated transmutated into a female. Somehow  ant-monkeys refused the inevitable: "extinction".
</p><p>
Reports in the media from Ga confirmed what Gabriela already suspected from what she
heard at the hospital and what she had seen during surgeries at the mining guilds
veterinary station: The ant-monkeys Maarsolian ape part of the DNA of these creatures
had its own timetable. It took 6 months for an ant-monkey do develop from its larva
state to the state equivalent to that of an 8 year old Orussian child. One year
for males to develop into a state where they were usable for breeding. Workers hardly 
ever survived the carbon mines for more than a year, let alone they would survive to the 
age of 5 standard years when Maarsolian apes started puberty. No you'd be hard pressed to 
find more than a hand full worker that managed to live to an age of 3 standard years.
</p><p>
It now had been 4 years since the quarantine forced the mining guild to implement expensive
measures that brought down the high dead-count in their mines. Conditions in the mines were 
still unhealthy but that was where her guild master came in.
He had devised a set of medical guidelines that would allow injured ant-monkeys to
live and continue being productive at minimum cost. 
</p><p>
Gabriela sometimes managed to acquire of batches of leftover spirits from a good friend who 
worked at the Lot casino. It wasn't as good as regular anesthetics, but at least it seemed to
give the ant-monkeys some relieve during surgery. Some of the older ant-monkeys
were now at the age where Maarsolian apes would come to sexual maturity. Five standard years.
While ant-monkeys, like their Wolderian ant lineage didn't have fur, and Maarsolian
apes were mostly furless apart from parts of their skull, Maarsolian apes
reaching sexual maturity would develop small furry patches in their genital area and 
under their upper extremities. Gabriela had seen such patches of fur during her time
at the veterinary station. Some older ant-monkeys seemed to also develop  distinct small bulges 
of fat tissue on both sides of their chest, a feature visually akin to the pictures she had 
seen of Maarsolian ape females.
</p><p>
It all started to all come together in her mind now. Ant-monkey DNA was flawed in more ways than
one. Not just was the RELI-gen defective, the supposedly dormant Maarsolian ape gens responsible 
for gender and sexual maturity where in fact active. The Ga nests proofed
this theory. In summer Ga was completely abandoned but but for a small workforce
of worker ant-monkeys. Apparently some of the Ga workers with active Maarsolian ape
gender gens reached ape puberty and in the absence of any Orussian overseers started
preferring exploring their new found sexual identity over their responsibilities.
</p><p>
Gabriela chuckled at the idea of Sato, the pompous level 8 mining guild master 
in charge of all Ga mining activity  and ultimately responsible for the
minimal medical budgets she and her guild-master had to work with, arriving
by luxury evacuation hopper at his mare condo only to find his condo occupied
by an adolescent queen and her thousands of first generation eggs. Ga reportedly
was a very beautiful place.  The landmass at the north pole 
at its very most north point featured a deep sweet-water lake that filled the massive hole 
of what used to be the first carbon mine.  This moor by virtue of its depth and northern position
was the source of a constant cool moor breeze. Only the very top of Uhm's elite could afford a
condo at Ga's moor. Most of that elite made its fortune from exploiting ant-monkeys or Dammons.
All to fitting thus Gabrielle thought that the adolescent queens would choose just these condo
for their nesting-grounds. Attame Gabriela was not quite sure off. 
There had been male ant-monkeys before reaching the ripe old age that coincides
with Maarsolian ape puberty, and non ever showed any signs she now recognized 
as belonging to Maarsolian ape puberty. For now her best guess was that
the act of mating with a queen triggered hormonal changes that kept Maarsolian ape
puberty from occurring. 
</p><p>
One thing was clear though, the interstellar senate was going to intervene with
matters in the Orus system. They had  appointed a local Cherubian priest as 
representative and had transferred the power of the guild masters of all 7 guilds to her. 
Many trades could be ascribed to Cherubians, but subtlety or willingness
for compromise were never among them. Gabriela didn't know much about Anaiis,
but the fact that she was Cherubian could only mean one thing: The senate
wanted the current ant-monkey crisis dealt with swiftly and decisively.
</p>
</section></body></html>
