<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Duty</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Duty</span></h1></header>
<p>
Raphael felt puzzled by the senates ruling. Hybrids were allowed to live on Orus-3, 
but just in the unlikely case these creatures managed to develop into an advanced society, 
the post evacuation quarantine was still left in place.
</p><p>
After the last evacuation ship had passed what was now a great Orussian asteroid belt,
the quarantine port size had been reduced to pod size and only Michael had a 
clearance level sufficient to learn the exact coordinates of the port. What this boiled down to
was that no carbon based lifeforms could pass the barrier of the newly created
asteroid belt without being evaporated by quarantine droids. 
</p><p>
What this also meant was that the senate had factually created
a declaration of war against any future advanced civilization that 
either the hybrids or the pre-civs could evolve to. 
The Hybrids and the aquatic pre-civs may not learn they are
caged animals for ten or twenty standard millennia, but if there was one foolproof
 way to make a dangerous beast like these hybrids even more dangerous,
it would be to cage it and poke at it, and that was exactly what the senate
had set up to do. 

Quarantine drones were not build to defend against warships. Sure they would stop an emerging 
interstellar society for about half a millennium, but after that all bets were off. 
But that were all long time concerns. There would be many decades left in what
to try and convince the senate that the quarantine better be lifted, even if things turned out 
for the worst.
</p><p>
Raphael had been surprised by Uriella's confession and the discovery of the hybrids village. 
A geno-virus to introduce free will into a pet! As a climate engineer, Raphael was often
tolled his proposals were to bold, but this was something even he would never have dared
to propose, let alone do. 

Raphael realized he had misjudged Uriella for all these decades. He and Uriella were much more 
alike than he ever realized. Uriella was not the typical conservative Bio he had made her
out to be. Uriels confession had rejuvenated the Archan council. Raphael could always
relate best with Michael. Like him Michael was bold, intelligent and in a sometimes scary way 
uncompromising. 
</p><p>
The two female Archan council members however had never fully gotten past Michaels role in the destruction
of respectively Orus-2 and Orus-5. Uhm was Gabriela's home planet and
Uriella had lived on Scayune from the moment she joined the guild as a junior
apprentice until the start of her first Woldera mission. 

Its impossible to live on a planet that long without emotional attachment.
For Raphael planets were simply the raw material he used in his work as a climate
engineer. Uriella and Gabriela had both been visibly surprised when Michael showed
sincere understanding for Uriella's attachment to the hybrids. 

At the time of their first meeting on the than still sea-moon Mara,
Michael had sensed that Uriella was keeping essential information to him. 
Later Michael often quietly questioned Uriella's commitment to
the military part of their mission.

All and all it was not until Uriels confession that Michaels distrust regarding Uriella
diminished. Michael immediately offered to defend Uriels case with Anaiis and
if need be before the senate. 
</p><p>
But the hybrid village was not the only issue that ended up being brought up before
the senate. Michael, after putting close tabs on the Hybrids village had found and
captured a Dammon. 

The Dammons had survived the flood and now they were violating not
one but two interstellar guidelines. Interrogation of the Dammon had revealed
Lucius plan. Lucius too had discovered the hybrids settlement, and Lucius knew
his interstellar law very closely. As soon as a Wolderian species were to develop
means of interstellar travel, they would be  considered to be an advanced
civilization, a civilization that could offer asylum to Dammons, legalizing
their presence on Woldera.

Normally it would take many hundreds of generations for a limited intelligent
species like these hybrids to develop into an advanced civilization. Lucius
however could not wait 'that' long.  Lucius and his Dammons were exploiting
the fact that one in four of Inoatars decedents had inherited
Inoatars RELI-gen, still imprinted on Orussians, but not his free
will gen. Naturally the Dammons did not and could not know about the free will gen, 
but that didn't really matter. 
</p><p>
The captured Dammon had presented himself as a technology god to to one
of the active-RELI-gen females. Bringing in new technology this 'priestess' was
respected and revered by the whole village. Lucius was patient in his
plan. 50 generations the captured Dammon revealed after being questioned by Michael
for 3 days. 50 generations of hybrids, thats almost one third of the average
Orussians lifespan! Lucius was an old man himself. The changes of him living an other
500 standard years were pretty slim. Lucius was planning for his sons to one
day roam free on this paradise planet.

And while Michael had sympathy for Lucius intentions, his duty came first, report to
the senate and let them rule.
</p><p>
The senates degree regarding the Dammons was relentless when compared to their
relative leniency towards the hybrids.

The guidelines for intercivilisational contact were not to be tempered with
by outlaws. The hybrids had to be monitored 24/7 and any contact between Dammons and
Hybrids was to be prevented at any cost, even if that meant the Archans had to
bend the guidelines themselves and even if it meant killing Dammons.

A new rule was decreded by the senate. Archans were granted dispensation from
the rules for intercivilisational contact on Woldera under the explicit condition
that Archans were to identify themselves as members of the Archan council. Under
no circumstances were hybrids to deify members of the Archan council.
Lucius may be playing the RELI-gen card, that gen still officially was owned
by the bio guild.  If the archans as a government body accidentally got 
deified and hybrid society grew to the capacity of this planet, the senate and with it
 the republic could go bankrupt.
</p><p>
Raphael knew the senate would not allow
that to happen.
</p>
</section></body></html>
