<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Epilog</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Epilog</span></h1></header>
<p>
It had been just 10 hybrid generations since her father Michael junior died. 
Gabriela was named after her grandmother, who like her grandfather was one of 
the four original Archan council members.

Since her father had died, and first Machiel and than Leto had been sent to sent by the senate 
to take up his role, Dammons had started getting the upper hand. 
Not aware that the senate had upped the stakes, the Dammons had taken advantage of the fact that
the senate has proofed unable to provide the council with as sharp a military mind
as those of her grandfather an her father.
</p><p>
Ugh was Leto's assistant that had been flown in in a hurry after humans managed
to put a tiny maned vessel on Mara, or as hybrids referred to it 'the' moon.
As if Woldera was the only planet with a moon. One of the telltale signs that hybrid
culture and hybrid technology were out of sync. 

The industrial revolution was not to have happened for at least two more
millenniums. Two standard years after her father died and Leto took his place
in the council, Dammons managed to get the industrial revolution started prematurely. 
</p><p>
Machiel was soon replaced by Leto, but once the industrial revolution
was doing its thing, human population spiked and there are only so many drones
a four man team can deploy. 

And as they couldn't keep all humans under drone surveillance, Dammons were bound to
push even more technology to the humans.
</p><p>
Gabriela had been asking the interstellar senate for reinforcements. Only after the
 hybrid moon-landing did the senate send  'reinforcements' in the form of a level
one assistant for Leto. 

Although Gabriela was highly sceptical at first, Uhm did bring
novel ideas to the struggle. forty years after the moon landing the biggest manned
space accomplishment of the humans was as Uhm kept reminding her,
a space station so close to the   surface that on Cirus-7 it would fly straight
into a mountain. 

Much of the details on the technology used for the moon landing had conveniently be lost, 
something you could leave to Ugh. 

Ugh also introduced the idea of fighting fire with fire. If there is
going to be an internet, why not introduce hybrids to technologies that allow 
sufficient bandwidth for sensors. 

Uriella and Uhm had worked together on what the hybrids would probably refer to as a 'surveillance 
botnet'. Billions of human built personal computing devices involuntarily working as Damon sensors.
</p><p>
Ugh had helped halt the rapid development of human society by giving humans more technology
ourselves. The humans had a fragile economic system and Ugh had been working on destabilizing 
that. 

There were signs Ugh may be succeeding and if the fragile monetary system collapsed, 
projection were that with technologies getting conveniently lost in bankruptcies etc, 
the Archan council could set human society back two or three generations technology wise.
</p><p>
Gabriela knew they could not hope to turn back the industrial revolution. Those millenniums were
lost. If only she could make the Dammons believe. After she learned the senate
had upped the stakes, she released a captured Damon with all the horrific details.
</p><p>
Apparently the Dammons dismissed the information as trickery. Something that was to be expected
it was the type of trick her father could have pulled. The old reports that Raphael, a member 
of the original council had filed had made it trough the bureaucracy of the republics ministry
of suggestions. The report had been presented to the senate by a civil servant who understood 
very little about its content. 
The result was contrary to what Raphael had intended. The quarantine drones were now being 
replaced with full sized war drones. War drones were programmed for escalating retaliation.
This meant that any use of force against a war drone was met by that drone or its
peers with at least 4/3 the initially used force directed at the original source of the 
force or any of its peers. Hybrid culture was many many millenniums from the ability to develop 
structural deescalating retaliation, the council knew that much. 
</p><p>
The senate apparently judged the human development by their moon-landing ability. As normally
a society would develop deescalating retaliation long before their first walk
on one of their planets moons. For those civilizations an escalating war fleet would 
effectively be a call for negotiations. But for a primitive civilization
like that of the hybrids, an escalating war-fleet would doubtlessly result in
total war. total war that would have Woldera end up like Orus-5.
</p><p>
Than there was the Beluga issue, the aquatic intelligent pre-civ species that the hybrids 
referred to as Beluga wales had successfully partitioned to acquire a representation in senate
under the repressed civilization clause. The new Beluga senator left no chance unused to
argue that Hybrid civilization was a marionette civilization of pets used by an alien 
civilization to wage a secret war against her species. The Beluga senator was highly intelligent,
but had not yet mastered all the subtleties of interstellar diplomacy. The Beluga situation
on Woldera did however not escape the attention of the senate, this while the Hybrids didn't
have a shadow of a clue that they were a thread to the habitat of a superior intelligence with a 
seat in the interstellar senate living on their planet. No clue that they were just inches away
from creating a situation that would give the repeated partitions for a second great flood for 
Woldera a solid chance of succeeding.
</p><p>

The Dammons were creating the tool of their own demise.
All the council could do was try to keep the upper hand in their struggle against
the Dammons for as long as they could.
</p>
</section></body></html>
