<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Altagenis</title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="frontmatter-rw Preface-rw" epub:type="frontmatter colophon">

<header>
<h1>Preface</h1>
</header>
<div class="block-rw extract-rw">
<p>"Begin challenging your own assumptions. Your assumptions are your windows on the world. Scrub them off every once in awhile, or the light won't come in." </p>
<p class="source-rw">—Alan Alda</p>
</div>
<p>
I'm not a novelist, in fact, although I love reading fantasy and Sci-fi  and had been
creating wild stories in my head for decades, I never had the urge to write any of them down.
During my winter season stay in west Africa I got inspired by several aspects of life in west Africa. The west African
winter temperatures that even at night never dropped below 80°F (in the Netherlands,
even summer days that peek above 80°F are pretty scarce). The lively religious life with a significant role for angels.
 By the Benin Voudoun festival and by the always buzzy tiny ants that kept investing our families apartment.
</p><p>
Lacking any of the tools of my trade,  not creating any of the rather technical products I usually spent my days creating, a first seed started growing.

The Orus-2 seasonal migrations started to solidify in my head. Armed with just the primitive editor on the old smart-phone I had on me,  I started to commit Orus-2 to an ASCII file on my phone.Than,  thoughts of my late father entered the picture. My dad was a convinced atheist. Weird Sci-fi like hypothesis's that had been tied to many of my teenage discussions my dad fell into place and this small Sci-fi saga found its form.
</p><p>
My writings are most likely crude. Most writing I've done have been tech papers and articles,   but I do feel the saga's outline and the Orus system are a solid foundation of what could be an amazing Sci-Fi novel.

Given that due to my limited fiction writing skills this work does not do justice to the story-line, I decided to try and make cooperative creation of a final work based on this story-line a serious option. Lacking any handles to do so without funding coworker from my rather thin wallet, an idea started to solidify that was much bigger than this story-line. The idea of a CryptoCoin based copyright licence.
</p><p>
This work is now the first submission to Creative BitNym, aimed to be used as an example of usage of the Creative BitNym copyright license.

I hope you will enjoy reading this tale as much as I enjoyed writing it. If you do and would like to contribute to making it a great novel, or if you yourself have sagas worth growing cooperatively, or are interested in contributing to the community effort to  develop the 1.0 version of the Creative BitNym copyright licence, please join me on http://pibara.github.io/bitnym/

</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Mixed feelings</span></h1></header>
<div class="block-rw extract-rw">
<p>"The ultimate chalenge to bio-engineering lies in the realization that our ability to create new forms out of old equilibrium inevitably initiates an evolutionary movement away from both the new form and the old equilibrium. " </p>
<p class="source-rw">—Ursang III, level 8 bio-guild master</p>
</div>
<p>
After Inoatar had disappeared  into the woods, Uriella had felt a mixture of loss and of relieve.
Inoatar had been so much more than a pet. After 12 standard years of solitude in her small Woldera 
based science station this ant-monkey had become an unlikely but true friend. 
His disappearance into the woods after Uriella explained to him about the full impact of the Lilith incident proofed to her how deep their friendship truly went.
When the reports about the incident reached the small southeast Woldera science station, 
Uriella's relationship with Inoatar instantly became a course for serious worries. 
Worries about her own survival but most of all worries about her family and clan.
Ant-monkeys had been bred on Scayune by the bio-guild for the cheap labor they could provide. 
It all seemed like such a perfect match. </p><p>
The in stature almost Orussian child like Maarsolian apes were relatively intelligent and had 
sufficient intellectual and physical potential for performing non trivial tasks. 
They lacked however any concept of hierarchy and any structural cooperative interaction beyond the 
base matriarchal family pack hunting cooperation patterns. 
Adult apes however violently rejected any type of authority. Wolderian ants on the other hand, 
although lacking any level of intelligence were amazingly organized to such an extend that a Wolderian ants nest with its tens of thousands of worker ant, was not that much different in structure 
from the ancient patriarchally organized city states on Cirus-prime. 
Wolderian ants were like the cells in an Orussian's body. 
Every ant knew only to play its part, but the whole nest acted almost like a single 
semi-intelligent single organism. So when the bio guild started selling ant-monkey  workers to the cities on Uhm, and more importantly to the mining-guild, a golden age seemed to have arrived in 
the Orus system. </p><p> 
Inoatar was an ant-monkey male, not a worker, so just like all 
ant-monkey males, Inoatar's value for the guild ended after mating with a queen , 
usually at an age of somewhat more than one standard year. 
Males were given away by the guild as pets to highly regarded masters of other guilds and, as
in Uriella's case to relatives of council members if these were sent on solitary missions.
Uriella, by virtue of having an uncle on the guilds top council had received Inoatar as a pet 
to keep her company on Woldera.  While the forest planet Woldera had a rich and abundant fauna, 
the animals on Woldera were all but appealing to average Orussians. 
So having a companion with more agreeable features than the Wolderian insects , spiders, slugs, snakes and lizards, was a prospect that
would be welcomed by almost any guild members that were sent for a solitary standard 15 year mission. 
Uriella was privileged in this regard. Males were rare, a male, just like the queen that would produce a few thousand eggs each day for 5 consecutive standard years, mated only once . Ant-monkeys mating was quite a spectacle. It involved a single queen and a small handful of males. 
The spectacle would take a few hours and for the male ant-monkey it was not without peril. 
Inoatar had required quite some medical care in the first few weeks that he came into Uriella's 
possession. Mating injuries could be bad. They were never fatal, but lasting injuries had been 
reported.
</p><p>
But now things had changed drastically. The golden age for the Orus system and the
privileged position the guild enjoyed as sole supplier of ant-monkey workers
had come to an abrupt end. The Lilith incident changed everything. 
The Scayune ant-monkey breeding colonies had all been placed in quarantine 
after the Lilith colony ant-monkey uprising. The guilds bio engineers had
taken all the usual precautions for their ant-monkey genetic meta-architecture.
The mythical guild master Ursang III, the first Bio to ever secure a place in the senate,
had been the spiritual father of what had become the power-base for the bio-guild. 
The Regressive Evolution Life Inhibitor (RELI) technology allowed the guild to work around the four laws of equilibrium that would normally have well designed life formsi, within just four or five generations, devolve into a species that could have dangerously different properties than those 
initially designed. Ursang III had created the concept of a RELI-gen. A gen that effectively
stopped new equilibrium from occurring by crudely stopping evolution itself.
Potentially dangerous animals like the ant monkey were imprinted genetically to not harm Orussian in any way and to protect them if they perceived any danger to an Orussian.
For ant-monkey workers, the natural reverence of Wolderian ants towards their queen had been used 
as basis for their Orussian imprints.  
The designs were created with multiple major vital functions tied to their RELI-gen.
So for the ant-monkeys with the imprinted RELI-gen ensuring unquestioning reverence of all 
their Orussian masters, and with the vital function bindings to the RELI gen ensuring an early 
death for larvae with a RELI gen that was in any way mutated,the Scayune incident
where ant-monkeys slaughtered more than two thousand guild members defied
 all logic.
</p><p>
Before the incident, Uriella's use of a geno-virus on Inoatar would at worst 
have gotten her assigned to a level-4 post in south Uhm city centrali next, rather than to the 
assistant post in the north Uhm city of Ga that her uncle had worked so hard to ensure her. 
Inoatar was after all just a single and now infertile male on a planet without queens and 
without settlements, and relatives of council members always got the benefit of the doubt.

But after the Scayune incident, the guild council was no doubt looking franticly
for a way out of the current quarantine.
A level 3 bio engineer that was caught messing with a breeders RELI gen would make Uriella 
a more than perfect scapegoat.
</p><p>
Seven standard year ago, Uriella had by that time had already grown extensively fond of Inoatar, she had taken a rather bold action that may get her into deep trouble now if it were discovered. 

Uriella had been around ant-monkeys before during her time on Scayune, but never had she developed any emotional ties to them.
As Uriella's feelings of friendship towards Inoatar deepened, Inoatar like any ant-monkey, could only answer Uriella's show of friendship with the 
unquestioning loyalty and reverence that came from the guilds patented RELI-gen technology.

Ant-monkeys, in order to be able to follow non trivial work orders were bio engineered 
to gain a reasonable understanding of the Orussian language. 
Most ant-monkeys however had conversational skills not much better than that of a toddler. 
Inoatar in contrast had shown amazing conversational skills equating almost those of an Orussian 
adolescent.

Next to his language skills, Inoatar had shown an understanding of engineering
that could probably have rivaled that of some of her less gifted classmates back in 
pre-guild that , even though they didn't make it to an apprentice position, included some 
of Uriella's best friends outside of the guild.

Inoatar was gifted mentally way beyond the basic level of his bio engineered
heritage. It was this that made it difficult for Uriella to accept Inoatar's
bio engineered reverence of her. Inoatar wasn't just a pet, he was a person like
her. Not Orussian, no, but still a person. A person though, as his RELI-gen  ensured,
without a glimmer of a free will. Uriella struggled with the moral 
implications of this realization for quite some time. Could she allow
a person to live a sub-Orussian existence being held hostage by his RELI gen into
an existence of pseudo-religious slavery?

On the other side she could not just ignore the stringent guidelines regarding
RELI-safety of bio engineered animals. Inoatar was now sterile, but the four laws of
equilibrium left no doubt about the guilds deeply rooted fear for the dangers of 
natural new equilibrium.

Her training and logic went directly  against her deep feelings of friendship for this 
extraordinary creature that was more as a son to her than as a pet. In the end
emotion overcame logic and duty, and Uriella engineered a simple yet effective targeted geno
virus. The virus didn't change the RELI-gen in any way, but simply changed a second gen in 
such a way that the blind reverence induced by the RELI-gen was effectively removed.  
Uriella was delighted to find that Inoatar with his new free-will gen activated accepted
her friendship and after a few years turned into the an almost Orussian companion. 
</p><p>
But now,after the reports
of the Lilith incident reached her, delight turned into despair. If the free-will
gen was discovered , Uriella would probably face the most severe punishment known to
the guild. Not only would Uriella herself face the most lengthy and gruesome death 
conceivable, her entire clan , even her uncle on the council, would be expelled from 
the guild and be reduced to the lowest social standing in Orussian society.

They would be reduced to non-citizens: dam-dwellers most probably.
A fate Uriella did not wish on anyone.

But now that Inoatar had disappeared into the endless Woldera woods, while she felt the
loss of never seeing her dear friend again, Uriella felt relieved. She knew Inoatar was
skilled enough to survive the Woldera forest and the endlessness of the  forest
combined with its often unfriendly wildlife made it very unlikely that his free-will gen
would ever get discovered by the guild.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Golden opportunities</span></h1></header>
<p>
Gabriela had been working hard to get noticed, but now for the first time, a real
opportunity seemed truly within grasp. While she was still only a
level 2 member of the medical guild, and while she hated the foul stench of the ant-monkeys, 
the Lilith incident made Gabriela's post with the mining guild probably the best
level 2 post within her entire guild. 
She now had an opportunity to truly make a name for herself, and if she played her cards right,
she may not have to spent the 32 standard day period that constitutes the  southern Uhm
summer wearing a thermo-suit. Uhm, or Orus-2 as non-Orussians referred to it was the only 
planet in the Orus system that had truly been colonized, but it was also the least pleasant 
of the four life supporting planets in the system. Orus 5, or Scayune as Orussians
referred to it also had something of a population, but nothing compared to the
metropolitan area on south Uhm.
South Uhm  city was the most densely populated city on Uhm.
Officially it had about one hundred million inhabitants, but those were just the official counts.
Only guild members and aspirant guild members from the guild clans were counted as
citizens. The medical guild was the only guild that recognized the existence
of the non-citizens dwelling the great dam. 
According to the medical records kept by the guild, there would be something between forty and 
fifty million non citizens, or Dammons as they were often referred to,  living somewhere inside of 
or even in improvised structures on top of the city dam. 
</p><p>
The city dam was a large structure built to dam the artificial south-pole landmass from the 
south Uhmian sea, and was build to withstand the violently boiling southern sea 
during high summer, it was not built to house millions of people , in fact, the dam during 
summer officially was rated at 20 minutes. That is, according to the official safety protocol 
for dam maintenance workers, a summer shift could take no more than 20 minutes, and was to be 
followed by at least 12 hours of hydro-enhanced rest. 
Failure to follow the protocol could lead to severe dehydration and lasting heat scars. 
Thus living circumstances that were present for those millions of dam dwellers that spent 
most of their lives there were ideal for the guild to use as medical training ground
for their lower level members.

Gabriela was extremely disappointed when she didn't get assigned to a post near the
great dam. While the big dam was basically an oven, at least the Dammons were Orussians.
Instead she was assigned a post at the mining guild, working with those vile
smelling ant-monkeys.

The Lilith incident however made her position with the mining
guild so much more desirable. 
</p><p>
After the Lilith incident
all the Orus-5 breeding plants got quarantined. Nobody knew for how long. Possibly indefinitely.
As ant-monkeys were rather cheap, medical care wasn't a prime priority for the mining
guild until recently. But now that the Scayune ant-monkey production was unavailable to the guild,
keeping the existing stock alive and healthy had become a prime priority.
So much so that Gabriela's  guild master would need to take some level 2 members with her this 
summer to handle all the paperwork.

Orus-2 was mostly a dessert planet. Its proximity to the Orus star made most of the planet
to hot for settlement. Only at the poles could settlements exist. This meant however
that while winters in south Uhm city were without sunlight, they were the most bearable
season. Summers in south Uhm city were hot. Extremely hot. Especially close to the Dam.
The Uhmian elite either lived far from the dam, close to the ultimate south, or migrated 
to one of the two north-pole cities for sumer. 

The richest would spent summer in the city of Ga. Others like her guild master would continue
their work on Lot peninsula. If she played her cards right, she would be joining
her master when he and the mining guild masters moved to Lot to
escape the southern summer season.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Preparations</span></h1></header>
<p>
The atmospheric thinning statistics coming back from Maarsoly were much worse than the climate 
models had predicted. Orus-4 was dying much faster than expected. 
Orus-4, or Maarsoly as Orussians referred to it was a small tera-formed planet where an originally 
Cirussian fauna had evolved into uniquely Maarsolian reptilians and mammals.  
The lakes of south Maarsoly had even become the habitat of an oddly exotic aquatic mammal that had 
recently been qualified as a high potential pre-civ species.  
</p><p>
The Maarsolian fauna, and especially this pre-civ species needed to be preserved. 
Climate science was still in its infancy when Maarsoly was tera-formed. 
The planet turned out to be fundamentally to small to sustain a type B atmosphere. 
Generations of climate scientists had used every trick in the book to slow the thinning 
of the atmosphere, but now a critical threshold was reached and thinning was accelerating. 
The planet was loosing its atmosphere, there were no tera-plants close enough for a new type-B 
atmosphere injection, and thus the only way to save most of the planets rich fauna would be 
bio-migration.
</p><p>
Uriella and Inoatar had 40 standard days left until the climate engineer that was to 
be attached to her station would arrive.

Uriella had gathered the genetic material of over 3000 species unique to her quadrant of
the forest planet. The whole southeastern sub-tropic was to be turned into Maarsolian grasslands.
Grasslands on Orus-3! And after the bio migration that grassland would house mammals. Mammals! 
After 14 standard years on the forest planet inhabited mostly by insects and slimy slugs a 
welcoming thought. 
</p><p>
A lot had happened since the Lilith incident. The guilds master bio scientists had discovered the
 problem that caused the Lilith uprising.There was a major and fundamental flaw
in the RELI-gen that allowed slight non fatal mutations to it to trigger a dynamic
re-imprint from Orussians back to the original Maarsolian ants queen reverence. 
The Lilith workers had re-imprinted on their queen mother, and had at one point perceived all 
Orussians to pose opposition to their queen goddess.

Scientists were working hard at a fix for the RELI gen, but until a fix
was found ant-monkey queens were prohibited. All forty queens on Scayune had been
ordered by the interstellar Senate to be incinerated. 
</p><p>
For Uriella this meant that she could welcome Inoatar back without any worries. 
Last spring Inoatar had ran into one of the many signs she had left at each of the deep forest 
checkpoints. Consequently he had returned to the science station where Uriella had welcomed him 
back. The preparations for the bio migration gave Inoatar a great opportunity to put his 
engineering skills to good use.  
</p><p>
Incubation and Relocation Capsules were normally build on Cirus-prime, but Cirus 
was a good 6 standard light-years from Orus. This meant Cirussian capsules would not 
reach the planet in time. 

Uriella had to design and build IRCs from spare parts. Inoatar had picked up
pretty quickly on Uriella's IRC design. The speed with what Inoatar was able
to build new IRCs and the Inoatars ability to come up with minor design
 chances when he ran out of a specific part kept amazing Uriella. A good thing too,
as major climate engineering efforts were to start in 120 standard days so
time was short.
</p><p>
Raphaels accommodation were almost finished. Although the big problems 
Uriella expected with respect to her usage of the GENO virus were no longer
to be feared, there were still some issues with how Raphael might
react. It was clear from Inoatars behavior that his RELI gen was inactive. 
Raphael might report this but with all queens dead, it was very unlikely there would any 
substantial consequences either to him or to Inoatar.

The real issue was that Uriella and Raphael would need to work together for a real 
long time. If Raphael would have a continued problem with Inoatars existence, how could
they work together effectively. There was so  much work to do in so little time.

A planet was dying, and without their intervention, many many thousands unique and valuable 
species. Uriella and Raphael had to work as a team from day one. Inoatar was Uriella's
true friend and was indispensable as an IRC builder in these times of crises. 
They would need to finish all the IRCs before Raphael arrived. 

Inoatar had to once again disappear into the woods, it pained her, but once again there was to 
much at stake. 
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Depths</span></h1></header>
<p>
What do you mean 'transplanting a small sea to Woldera'? 
We are dealing with delicate ecosystems! With all due respect, have you considered
all the possible problems that could create for both eco systems?
This was the kind of response Raphael had gotten used to in his many years as climate engineering  
within the bio engineering guild. Climate engineers were looked upon as trouble
makers by much of the bio engineering guild. Some even suggested openly that climate
engineers had no place calling themselves bio engineering guild members. 
No-one would state such words in the presence of a guild master like himself, 
but in time that he was still only a level 3 member, these word often came to ear.
</p><p>
Aldrich was a respected level 3 guild member that had the misfortune of completing his promotional mission at a bad time. In other times Aldrich would have long been assigned a
master post on Uhm. If only it hadn't been for the quarantine. Relations between the bio
engineering guild and the mining guild had grown to be rather delicate since the bio engineering 
guild had been forced to cease ant-monkey production. Aldrich while being one of the smartest
and most respected bio scientist within the guild had been known for being less than
diplomatic at times. A trait that at this point in time kept him stuck on this watery moon
and kept him from a well deserved master of the guild title. 
Aldrich wasn't the kind of person to be pressed by the delay. In fact, he had gotten so attached to this watery rock and its rich marine life, that he wasn't even sure if he was ready to return to civilization.
</p><p>
Mara was a relatively big sea-moon for a mid sized class B planet like the forest planet Orus-3.  
There wasn't any land mass anywhere on Mara.  The science base on Mara was a medium sized standard
sea-dome that housed four guild members, Aldrich being the most senior. Mara had a relatively
rich variety of sea-life for a sea-moon. It had exotic forms of most well known sea fauna categories.
There was even a large family of predatory fish unlike any species on any of the four famous Agma 
systems sea planets. Aldrich was proud of his Mara. He had singlehandedly categorized the
genomes of all of the ten thousands of sea species on Mara before the council sent him 3 assistants 
to help with the paperwork.
</p><p>
While all was on short notice, Raphael had prepared well for his visit to Mara.
Maarsoly was dying and Woldera held to few large bodies of water to sustain many
of Maarsoly's species, especially the pre-civ species. 
If the guild allowed a pre-Civ species to go extinct, there would be political consequences 
that would dwarf the Lilith incident in its impact. The guild might loose all of its seats in 
senate. A guild without senate seats, now that would be a blow from what the guild might never recover.
</p><p>
Mara was the only viable option. Although Raphael outranked Aldrich, Aldrichs rank was due only 
to the current political circumstances.  Aldrich had the respect of many on the
guilds main council and if the RELI-gen research paid off, Aldrich would likely
be a member of the council long before Raphael. Thus the situation demanded respect
and patience. Mara and its marine life were precious to Aldrich, They would have
to be preserved, if not on Mara than on  Woldera. 
If on Woldera, than the transplanted sea would need to be bigger than what
he planned for initially. And worse, it would have to keep its salinity levels.
Bio engineering wasn't an option here. Woldera had some nasty sweat water fish
and reptilians that would gladly have most of Aldrichs precious eco system
for breakfast. No Woldera would need a salt water sea of some size, some of Mara's
ecosystem shall need to move there. How can we work that in with the other plans?
</p><p>
We shall be combining 3 eco systems.
</p><p>
Madness! Aldrich exclaimed. 
</p><p>
There is much to think about indeed. Many factors to consider. I shall be
needing your extensive expertise on the Mara eco system on this one. It will
be a hard nut to crack, but with your expertise and that of the scientists on 
Woldera we must find a way to do it. A planet is dying and with it a whole
ecosystem. No need to remind me of that Aldrich responded. I'm fully aware of 
the urgency of the matter.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Panic</span></h1></header>
<p>
Gabriela had been working 20 hour shifts at the Lot hospital for 6 days now and there
seemed to come no end to the constant stream of seriously injured refugees from south Uhm city.
While some had wounds inflicted by Attame's, most major injuries were the result of ERC 
collisions and ERC landing failures. Every Orussian knew how to create a basic and safe 
Evacuation and Rescue Capsule in about one standard hour using nothing but a base computing unit,
a few guild capes, and some parts that were available in any propulsion based transportation
device. But how much difference it makes if an ERC needs to be constructed with
a dozen of crazed Attame's roaming the streets chanting "death to the false gods,
hail to our goddess, queen father Attame'.
</p><p>
While Attame's were all in development stages of children and adolescents, and
while an average adult ant-monkey would have only half the stature and half the 
mental development of an adult Orussian, Orussians were a peaceful species and remembrance 
of the Lilith incident had Orussians opt for fleeing rather than fighting.
There were reports and rumors of ant-monkey attacks on schools and power-plants that supposedly
killed thousands of Orussians. These reports and rumors contributed gravely to the state of 
general panic within the dammed south Uhm city. 
</p><p>
Where ant-monkeys probably killed tens of thousands, the confirmed death count due to badly 
constructed ERCs had already exceeded a million. Combined with over two hundred thousand mid-air
collisions between capsules due to bad trajectory or sensor settings brought the
total death-count to almost 1.5 million. About 10% of that number had had come trough
one of Lots 3 small hospitals first. 
</p><p>
Each day ten thousand new patients were being brought in to a little hospital 
build to house only a few thousand patients. Those that made it to the next day would
most probably survive, but more than half did not make the next day. Lot was a relatively
small town when compared to south Uhm City, 20.000 full-time inhabitants and two million
seasonal inhabitants that came to escape the hot south-pole summer. 
</p><p>
So far 50 million had made the ERC jump from the south-pole to the north-pole peninsula. 
Rations were running scarce real fast. Gabriela had trouble distinguishing facts
from rumors, but working 20 hour shifts at the hospital she picked up enough
to distinguish the outlines of what must have happened. A pet ant-monkey male named Attame
owned by a merchant guild guild master had disappeared into an section of the great dam a few years 
ago. Around that same time there had been reports of other missing pet ant-monkey
males but all of these showed up again after a few days. Seemingly unrelated there had
been rumors about a queens-nest in the outer dam but these came from Dammons,
the outcast dam dwellers. Officially Dammons did not exist so reports about unexplained
disappearances of Dammons and sightings of an ant-monkey queen had gotten the same status
as the many other urban legends about the great dam.
</p><p>
One persistent urban legend was that Dammons breathed sulfur rather than oxygen.
A myth that probably found its inception from the fact that Dammons were used as
relatively cheap labor by the mining guild before the commercial
exploitation of ant-monkey workers soled by by the bio engineering guild. 
</p><p>
This time as it turned out, reality was worse than the myth. There was indeed
a queens-nest in a section of the dam, but a very different kind of queens-nest
than those that were exploited in the Scayune breeding colonies. This queen
wasn't just a queen, and its children weren't the regular workers and the occasional male.
No, the run away ant-monkey male apparently was gendermorphic and had transmorphed into a
 queen ant-monkey. Attame had mated with several pet ant-monkey males and had subsequently
turned into a queen, creating an ant-monkey colony. 
And to make matters worse, all of her offspring had re-imprinted on her just as what happened in 
the Lilith breeding colony many years before. Attame himself was hatched during the quarantine 
before the queen killings were ordered by the interstellar senate. Now Attame who as a male never
mated transmutated into a female. Somehow  ant-monkeys refused the inevitable: "extinction".
A gendermorphic male was an anomaly , but the males were suposed to be sterile after mating with the queen.
</p><p>
Reports in the media from Ga confirmed what Gabriela already suspected from what she
heard at the hospital and what she had seen during surgeries at the mining guilds
veterinary station: The ant-monkeys Maarsolian ape part of the DNA of these creatures
had its own timetable. It took 6 months for an ant-monkey do develop from its larva
state to the state equivalent to that of an 8 year old Orussian child. One year
for males to develop into a state where they were usable for breeding. Workers hardly 
ever survived the carbon mines for more than a year, let alone they would survive to the 
age of 5 standard years when Maarsolian apes started puberty. No you'd be hard pressed to 
find more than a hand full worker that managed to live to an age of 3 standard years.
</p><p>
It now had been 4 years since the quarantine forced the mining guild to implement expensive
measures that brought down the high dead-count in their mines. Conditions in the mines were 
still unhealthy but that was where her guild master came in.
He had devised a set of medical guidelines that would allow injured ant-monkeys to
live and continue being productive at minimum cost. 
</p><p>
Gabriela sometimes managed to acquire batches of leftover spirits from a good friend who 
worked at the Lot casino. It wasn't as good as regular anesthetics, but at least it seemed to
give the ant-monkeys some relieve during surgery. Some of the older ant-monkeys
were now at the age where Maarsolian apes would come to sexual maturity. Five standard years.
While ant-monkeys, like their Wolderian ant lineage didn't have fur, and Maarsolian
apes were mostly furless apart from parts of their skull, Maarsolian apes
reaching sexual maturity would develop small furry patches in their genital area and 
under their upper extremities. Gabriela had seen such patches of fur during her time
at the veterinary station. Some older ant-monkeys seemed to also develop  distinct small bulges 
of fat tissue on both sides of their chest, a feature visually akin to the pictures she had 
seen of Maarsolian ape females.
</p><p>
It all started to all come together in her mind now. Ant-monkey DNA was flawed in more ways than
one. Not just was the RELI-gen defective, the supposedly dormant Maarsolian ape gens responsible 
for gender and sexual maturity where in fact active. The Ga nests proofed
this theory. In summer Ga was completely abandoned but but for a small workforce
of worker ant-monkeys. Apparently some of the Ga workers with active Maarsolian ape
gender gens reached ape puberty and in the absence of any Orussian overseers started
preferring exploring their new found sexual identity over their responsibilities.
</p><p>
Gabriela chuckled at the idea of Sato, the pompous level 8 mining guild master 
in charge of all Ga mining activity  and ultimately responsible for the
minimal medical budgets she and her guild-master had to work with, arriving
by luxury evacuation hopper at his mare condo only to find his condo occupied
by an adolescent queen and her thousands of first generation eggs. Ga reportedly
was a very beautiful place.  The landmass at the north pole 
at its very most northern point featured a deep sweet-water lake that filled the massive hole 
of what used to be the first carbon mine.  This moor by virtue of its depth and northern position
was the source of a constant cool moor breeze. Only the very top of Uhm's elite could afford a
condo at Ga's moor. Most of that elite made its fortune from exploiting ant-monkeys or Dammons.
All to fitting thus Gabrielle thought that the adolescent queens would choose just these condo
for their nesting-grounds. Attame Gabriela was not quite sure off. 
There had been male ant-monkeys before reaching the ripe old age that coincides
with Maarsolian ape puberty, and non ever showed any signs she now recognized 
as belonging to Maarsolian ape puberty. For now her best guess was that
the act of mating with a queen triggered hormonal changes that kept Maarsolian ape
puberty from occurring. 
</p><p>
One thing was clear though, the interstellar senate was going to intervene with
matters in the Orus system. They had  appointed a local Cherubian priest as 
representative and had transferred the power of the guild masters of all 7 guilds to her. 
Many trades could be ascribed to Cherubians, but subtlety or willingness
for compromise were never among them. Gabriela didn't know much about Anaiis,
but the fact that she was Cherubian could only mean one thing: The senate
wanted the current ant-monkey crisis dealt with swiftly and decisively.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Paradise</span></h1></header>
<p>
The ant-monkey revolt in south Uhm city was exactly the opportunity that Lucius
had been preparing for. Lucius knew he himself wouldn't have long to enjoy it, 
Lucius was quite old , but next to that like many Dammons he was old way beyond his years. 
Years he had slaved for the mining guild in their dreaded Carbon mines before being
replaced by ant-monkeys. Unlike many other Dammons, Lucius was to proud to beg for scrapings. 
He was a thief, and a damn good one at that. Better to steal and be proud than to beg and
abandon his pride. Lucius was a Cherubian and a proud one at that. 
Before becoming a Dammon, Lucius was a level 7 trading guild guild master. For a short moment
even Lucius was a senate representative. But politics are a dangerous mistress indeed.
Lucius had been granted full settlement powers by the senate, so when the senate
asked him to take care of the south-Uhm housing problem Lucius created a bold plan that ended up destroying him. 
</p><p>
Against interstellar guidelines, Lucius decreeded a new settlement on Orus-3. 
A big mistake indeed. He underestimated the bio engineering guilds influence in the senate. 
The Bio's had laid claim to the forest planet Orus-3 and used all their political influence to hold on to it.
Being a true Cherubian, Lucius remained strong behind his principles. South Uhm
was build to house 10 million settlers, no more. Building new houses closer to the dam
wasn't an option. The surface temperature near the dam rose to unacceptable levels in the
boiling-sea periods during high summer. No way he would subject Orussians to such
circumstances. But things didn't go as Lucius decreeded. Not only did those horrid Bio's
manage to get his senate mandate revoked, they even managed to get his fellow guild
members to disband him and his entire clan from the trading guild. Lucius had fallen
from the very top of the food-chain to the very bottom. And now, not only had
the city expanded so much that streets were built against the dam, outcasts like himself
had to live inside the boiling hot damm structure. At least working in the dangerous Carbon mines got
the Dammons access to thermo-suits. After ant-monkey introduction however, Dammons
were no longer needed in the mines, and after all these years many thermo-suits
would now often start to malfunction. If such a malfunction happened while asleep, a Dammon
would die of dehydration within one standard hour.
</p><p>
Something had to be done for the Dammons, and this ant-monkey uprising provided just
the opportunity. In fact, Lucius had a big hand in the uprising. He had discovered
the nest when the first generation were only just eggs. He had
kept Attame alive in her hostile dam housing feeding her stolen apples and he had 
educated her offspring into the art of pickpocketing.
</p><p>
Julius could not believe his luck when he discovered that, just like the Lilith incident,
Attame's offspring had imprinted on its queen. Lucius had set himself up as Attame's high priest, 
preparing the young pickpocketing ant-monkeys for a holy war against the false gods of Uhm. 
Lucius was not expecting his plan to commence until next year when many more generation would
be functionally mature. He had constructed a believe system around their 'goddess queen father'
where they would be waiting for a sign from their goddess to start their holy war on.
</p><p>
To his surprise however, the younglings were so eager for a sign from their goddess
father that they had triggered prematurely.
Fortunately Lucius was a prudent planner so most preparations had been in place, 
unfortunately however there were only four trade ships docked to the trading guilds
docking station instead of the maximum capacity of seven that Lucius had planned
for. Four trade ships, each housing 10.000  Dammons and everything needed for creating
a settlement on Orus-3. Lucius was about to get his revenge on all the guilds
that wronged him. And he and his clan, together with 32000 other Dammons were about to
start a new settlement on whati, compared to the great dam, was nothing less than
paradise. 
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Omega &amp; Alpha</span></h1></header>
<p>
Gabriela had arrived on Mara four days ago. She had been welcomed by Aldrich and his crew.
For the first few days until Uriella and Raphael joined them, Aldrich had been expressing
his discontent with the fact that she, a child in his eyes and a member of an
inferior guild was appointed as a member of the Archan council by Anaiis, while he
with all his knowledge about Mara was not. Yesterday Uriella and Gabriel had arrived, 
and now all were looking in anticipation how the vessel of the military attache
was docking in the surface docking station.
</p><p>
It would be one more standard hour before Michaels pod would reach the underwater
science station dome. Michaels reputation preceded him though. Michael was the fourth
and final member of the Archan counsel appointed
directly by Anaiis herself. The Archan council was appointed for one reason: dealing
with the ant-monkey infestation on Orus-3.
</p><p>
As Gabriela had predicted, Anaiis had dealt decisively with the ant-monkey crisis
on Orus-2. More decisively though than even she could ever have imagined. 
The interstellar senate had decreeded that "all" ant-monkeys be disposed off. 
Ant-monkeys had first brought down a breeding colony, and next brought
a large metropolis to its knees. And last, but for some senate members who still owned
one of the condo's on the Ga moor shoreline probably not least, ant-monkeys destroyed
massive real-estate value in Ga.
</p><p>
Anaiis had responded to this decreed as only a Cherubian could. She had ordered
Lot evacuated, and while the Lot evacuation was still far from finished, and while
in south Uhm city there were still tens of thousands registered citizens unevacuated
and many times that number of Dammons, Anaiis had ordered an all out military strike
against South-Uhm and Ga-moor. South-Uhm and Ga-Moor were hit with such an excess of
thermonuclear power that it was clear that nothing was left to chance. Nothing could 
have survived the blast.
</p><p>
Next she ordered the total obliteration of Scayune. Her military attache, Michael, carried
out both attacks. Uhm was now a dead planet, after the nuclear fallout even more of an inferno
than it was before. And with the remnant carbon deposits in Ga-More having been completely 
oxidized by the thermonuclear attack, Raphael had explained to her, the greenhouse effect 
would soon kick in.The poles won't ever again support colonization, Michael
made sure of that. And Scayune? Scayune is gone, obliterated. all that reminds
that Scayune ever existed is the fact that
there is now a long stretched  belt of debree between Orus-4 and Orus-6.
And guess what, the military attache that carried out all these brutal attacks is the same
Michael on his way to our dome that is to be chair our newly formed council. Sure
this was still Raphaels mission, but sending in Michael as chair did make one thing very clear 
to all the council: this was now a military mission.
</p><p>
Raphael as climate engineer was put in charge of sustainably saving as many
of the species of Woldera, Mara and Maarsoli as would at all be possible within
the confines of the military mission goals. Four trade-ships had been stolen by Dammons
during the south Uhm city crisis, and had been steered to Woldera. As it turned out, 
one of the ships on departure had been invested by ant-monkeys, so while
Anaiis could care less about a Dammon colony on Woldera, an ant-monkey infestation
on the forest world fell under her direct responsibility to carry out her prime directive. These and-monkeys had to be annihilated decisively, end of discussion. 
And judging from what she heard about Michael, even if she could convince him that ant-monkeys
may not be as dangerous as the senate has been made to believe, there would be little change 
that such knowledge would influence his determinance to carry out the missions military component
to the exact letter. Maybe if she got Uriella on her side. Uriella seemed to have a
great interest in what she worked out about ant-monkeys dual puberty phase,
and seemed to posses interesting theories regarding ant-monkey potential
if their RELI-gen would be disabled. If she didn't know how devoted bio's
are about their ideas of bio engineering security and their four laws of equilibrium, 
she would almost believe these were more than just theories. 
But even though their RELI gen has proofed to be defective, the idea of
a Bio creating a geno virus to disable it was just to far fetched. The ideas
Uriella opted were intriguing though. Would it be possible for Orussians
to peacefully work with 'free' ant-monkeys ? If so, releasing such
a virus on the Wolderian ant-monkey population may be a good alternative
to Raphael's idea of a great flood.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Probabilities</span></h1></header>
<p>
Being the gifted general he was, Michael had anticipated Lucius's attack
on the moon-base and had delivered a deciding blow to the Dammon army. 
Many Dammons accepted Michaels offer of evacuation, but Lucius did
not. A little under seven hundred Dammons apparently remained
on the surface when Mara's large water-mass hit Woldera's surface. 
While Mara,s water-mass wasn't sufficient to turn Woldera in a real
sea-planet, the tidal wave that resulted from the impact of the big ball of water
swept the whole globe several times, removing any hope of survival for any fauna 
living on the surface. 
</p><p>
Although Michael had anticipated Lucius his strike, Lucius has impressed
him quite a bit. It was a bold attack and one that would have caught any general
other than Michael by surprise. And the attack had been more skilled than any
he had seen in the decades he served as a general. Had Lucius had the reflexes of
a younger man, his pod could have potentially have stopped the flood from happening, 
and could have destroyed the Mara based drone control hub. </p><p> 
Michael would have gladly offered Lucius clemency, but Lucius had returned to the
surface of the forest planet, apparently preferring certain death to the prospect
of evacuation to a different system.
</p><p>
Everything was proceeding as Raphael had designed it. After the devastating flood,
the water settled into large seas that covered about two thirds of the planets 
surface. While some woods stood strong, others had been swept away, leaving great
plains where Raphael ensured grasslands would soon emerge. 
Looking at the devastation from the flood it was hard to imagine
the plains would recover in time for the arrival of the Marsolian IRCs later that week.
First the Woldarian pods would return to what was left of the forests. Drones were
on the planet right now working hard on the salinity levels in the forests. The trees
may have survives the great flood, the trees could still die from the salt
left behind in the soil and surface waters if the drones did not clean it up quickly.
</p><p>
After the Wolderian IRCs, the Marian IRCs would repopulate the Marian sea that now
covered much of Woldera. The final touch would be the arrival of the Marsolian mammal IRCs.
Michael felt some remorse for the needless Dammon deaths. There was no way the Dammons had
survived the flood, or was there? Lucius showed increddable boldness and ingenuity in his 
attack on the moon station. A military mind of that increddable would have
a backup plan. 
</p><p>
Michael knew he had to report the possible survival of a small Dammon colony on Woldera
to the senate. The Archan council had to remain at the Mara science station for quite some
time as watchers. They needed to monitor the creatures hatched from the IRCs.
Their survival and health had to be monitored for quite some generations. If needed
fine-tuning should at least create a fair fighting chance for competing species
from the different ecosystems. But as much as these eco systems concerned his fellow Archans, 
Michael was a general first. His main concern as a watcher would be to watch out for signs of the 
unlikely possibility that any ant-monkeys survived the flood, and secondary, if he was right
about the senates priorities, as much as he hated the idea, he would need to watch 
out for all possible signs of a surviving Dammon colony. Michael knew that if Lucius survived, 
Lucius would realize the senate would have the planet watched and he and his company would be 
moving only in the shadows. For generations if needed.
He and any military attache appointed to the council after him would need to remain
really really watchful. Lucius had survived the flood, Michael was almost certain
of that now. A great military mind like Lucius always has a backup plan.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Complications</span></h1></header>
<p>
Uriella realized what happened the minute she saw the faces of the Maatsolian apes.
Maarsolian apes were plain-dwellers. Hunter gatherers that slept in solitary
trees on the planes. But these apes had build themselves a primitive agriculture
village. She was on patrol with Gabriela when they discovered the village. There
was no denying, these were hybrids.  Gabriela of all people would be the last one that 
could ever be convinced otherwise. 
It had been just twenty standard years since the flood. Four generations of Maarsolian apes
at most. Michael with his limited biological knowledge may be fooled by a theory that this 
occurred naturally as a response to adaptation to an other planet, but fooling Michael
would take a much better lier than Uriella knew herself to be. Gabriela,
well no change she would be fooled for even one second by such a ludicrous
hypothesis. 
</p><p>
These were hybrids, both Uriella and Gabriela knew that the first
second they spotted a village occupied by Maarsolian apes. But what Gabriela could
not have realized is what Uriella spotted immediately. These apes were clearly descendants from Inoatar.
Uriella had informed Inoatar of the old geo-engineering plans, but she had been on Mara from
the time the council was first assembled up until after the great flood. i
She had not had any opportunity to warn Inoatar about his impending doom, neither had she provided him with an
an Advanced Relocation Unit. Inoatar knew how to build an IRC but as Uriella knew for sure, 
Inoatar could not have extracted his own DNA and have operated the incubation unit by himself.
While DNA extraction was a skill that was easily acquired, operating the biological parts of an
incubator was a delicate skill that took even the most gifted Orussians decades to master. 
No, Inoatar must have figured out how to build an ARC all by himself.
It would have been hard to spot an ARC among all those thousands of IRCs even if
anyone was specifically looking for it. And nobody was looking for it.
</p><p>
Inoatar must have found himself a Maarsolian ape female and must have mated with her.
This meant that Uriella was wrong about the males, they too aparently went through a second puberty, aparently at a rather ripe age.
No other explanation possible for the striking resemblance : These are Inoatar
descendants. 
</p><p>
It was hard to predict how Raphael and Michael would react to the existence
of hybrids. Especially Michael. An agricultural community, even if it consisted of 
only one village under the revised guidelines for intercivilisational
relations constituted a primitive civilization.

The guideline explicitly forbad any direct contact between interstellar
civilizations and primitive civilizations. On the other hand, these hybrids were
part ant-monkey and he and the other Archans were under direct order to eradicate
'any trace of' ant-monkeys. Uriella was never that good at keeping up with interstellar law. 
Guild rules were that much simpler. But did the revised guidelines for 
intercivilisational contact overrule direct orders from the senate, or was
it the other way around. Uriella felt an undeniable urge to defend this village.
Decimating a village in order to adhere to some order from a senate light-years
from here went against everything Uriella believed in. And some of these apes
were so much akin to her old friend Inoatar, that the village felt like it was her own
family. No this village could not be decimated. Uriella would defend it at 
all cost. Even if it meant going against Michael. Michael still scared Uriella.
Michael was always so sure about the law and so dedicated to the chain of
command. How would Michael react? Should she come clean about her friend
and about her use of the geno virus? 
Yes she would have to tell everyone what she had done and what she knew.
And if needed she would die defending this village. That much she owed her old
friend.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Duty</span></h1></header>
<p>
Raphael felt puzzled by the senates ruling. Hybrids were allowed to live on Orus-3, 
but just in the unlikely case these creatures managed to develop into an advanced society, 
the post evacuation quarantine was still left in place.
</p><p>
After the last evacuation ship had passed what was now a great Orussian asteroid belt,
the quarantine port size had been reduced to pod size and only Michael had a 
clearance level sufficient to learn the exact coordinates of the port. What this boiled down to
was that no carbon based lifeforms could pass the barrier of the newly created
asteroid belt without being evaporated by quarantine droids. 
</p><p>
What this also meant was that the senate had factually created
a declaration of war against any future advanced civilization that 
either the hybrids or the pre-civs could evolve to. 
The Hybrids and the aquatic pre-civs may not learn they are
caged animals for ten or twenty standard millennia, but if there was one foolproof
 way to make a dangerous beast like these hybrids even more dangerous,
it would be to cage it and poke at it, and that was exactly what the senate
had set up to do. 

Quarantine drones were not build to defend against warships. Sure they would stop an emerging 
interstellar society for about half a millennium, but after that all bets were off. 
But that were all long time concerns. There would be many decades left in what
to try and convince the senate that the quarantine better be lifted, even if things turned out 
for the worst.
</p><p>
Raphael had been surprised by Uriella's confession and the discovery of the hybrids village. 
A geno-virus to introduce free will into a pet! As a climate engineer, Raphael was often
tolled his proposals were to bold, but this was something even he would never have dared
to propose, let alone do. 

Raphael realized he had misjudged Uriella for all these decades. He and Uriella were much more 
alike than he ever realized. Uriella was not the typical conservative Bio he had made her
out to be. Uriels confession had rejuvenated the Archan council. Raphael could always
relate best with Michael. Like him Michael was bold, intelligent and in a sometimes scary way 
uncompromising. 
</p><p>
The two female Archan council members however had never fully gotten past Michaels role in the destruction
of respectively Orus-2 and Orus-5. Uhm was Gabriela's home planet and
Uriella had lived on Scayune from the moment she joined the guild as a junior
apprentice until the start of her first Woldera mission. 

Its impossible to live on a planet that long without emotional attachment.
For Raphael planets were simply the raw material he used in his work as a climate
engineer. Uriella and Gabriela had both been visibly surprised when Michael showed
sincere understanding for Uriella's attachment to the hybrids. 

At the time of their first meeting on the than still sea-moon Mara,
Michael had sensed that Uriella was keeping essential information to him. 
Later Michael often quietly questioned Uriella's commitment to
the military part of their mission.

All and all it was not until Uriels confession that Michaels distrust regarding Uriella
diminished. Michael immediately offered to defend Uriels case with Anaiis and
if need be before the senate. 
</p><p>
But the hybrid village was not the only issue that ended up being brought up before
the senate. Michael, after putting close tabs on the Hybrids village had found and
captured a Dammon. 

The Dammons had survived the flood and now they were violating not
one but two interstellar guidelines. Interrogation of the Dammon had revealed
Lucius plan. Lucius too had discovered the hybrids settlement, and Lucius knew
his interstellar law very closely. As soon as a Wolderian species were to develop
means of interstellar travel, they would be  considered to be an advanced
civilization, a civilization that could offer asylum to Dammons, legalizing
their presence on Woldera.

Normally it would take many hundreds of generations for a limited intelligent
species like these hybrids to develop into an advanced civilization. Lucius
however could not wait 'that' long.  Lucius and his Dammons were exploiting
the fact that one in four of Inoatars decedents had inherited
Inoatars RELI-gen, still imprinted on Orussians, but not his free
will gen. Naturally the Dammons did not and could not know about the free will gen, 
but that didn't really matter. 
</p><p>
The captured Dammon had presented himself as a technology god to to one
of the active-RELI-gen females. Bringing in new technology this 'priestess' was
respected and revered by the whole village. Lucius was patient in his
plan. 50 generations the captured Dammon revealed after being questioned by Michael
for 3 days. 50 generations of hybrids, thats almost one third of the average
Orussians lifespan! Lucius was an old man himself. The changes of him living an other
500 standard years were pretty slim. Lucius was planning for his sons to one
day roam free on this paradise planet.

And while Michael had sympathy for Lucius intentions, his duty came first, report to
the senate and let them rule.
</p><p>
The senates degree regarding the Dammons was relentless when compared to their
relative leniency towards the hybrids.

The guidelines for intercivilisational contact were not to be tempered with
by outlaws. The hybrids had to be monitored 24/7 and any contact between Dammons and
Hybrids was to be prevented at any cost, even if that meant the Archans had to
bend the guidelines themselves and even if it meant killing Dammons.

A new rule was decreded by the senate. Archans were granted dispensation from
the rules for intercivilisational contact on Woldera under the explicit condition
that Archans were to identify themselves as members of the Archan council. Under
no circumstances were hybrids to deify members of the Archan council.
Lucius may be playing the RELI-gen card, that gen still officially was owned
by the bio guild.  If the archans as a government body accidentally got 
deified and hybrid society grew to the capacity of this planet, the senate and with it
 the republic could go bankrupt.
</p><p>
Raphael knew the senate would not allow
that to happen.
</p>
</section>
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<header>
<h1><span class="audio" id="c001s0000">Epilog</span></h1></header>
<p>
It had been just 10 hybrid generations since her father Michael junior died. 
Gabriela was named after her grandmother, who like her grandfather was one of 
the four original Archan council members.

Since her father had died, and first Machiel and than Leto had been sent to sent by the senate 
to take up his role, Dammons had started getting the upper hand. 
Not aware that the senate had upped the stakes, the Dammons had taken advantage of the fact that
the senate has proofed unable to provide the council with as sharp a military mind
as those of her grandfather an her father.
</p><p>
Ugh was Leto's assistant that had been flown in in a hurry after hybrids managed
to put a tiny maned vessel on Mara, or as hybrids referred to it 'the' moon.
As if Woldera was the only planet with a moon. One of the telltale signs that hybrid
culture and hybrid technology were out of sync. 

The hybrid's industrial revolution was not to have happened for at least two more
millenniums. Two standard years after her father died and Machiel took his place
in the council, Dammons managed to get the industrial revolution started prematurely. 
</p><p>
Machiel was soon replaced by Leto, but once the industrial revolution
was doing its thing, hybrid population spiked and there are only so many drones
a four man team can deploy. 

And as they couldn't keep all hybrids under drone surveillance, Dammons were bound to
push even more technology to the hybrids.
</p><p>
Gabriela had been asking the interstellar senate for reinforcements for years. Only after the
 hybrid moon-landing did the senate send  'reinforcements' in the form of a level
one assistant for Leto. 

Although Gabriela was highly sceptical at first, Uhm did bring
novel ideas to the struggle. forty Wolderian years after the moon landing the biggest manned
space accomplishment of the hybrids was as Uhm kept reminding her,
a space station so close to the   surface that on Cirus-7 it would fly straight
into a mountain. 

Much of the details on the technology used for the original moon landing had conveniently be lost, 
something you could leave to Ugh. 

Ugh also introduced the idea of fighting fire with fire. If there is
going to be an global hybrid computer network spanning the whole of Wolders, why not introduce hybrids to technologies that allow 
sufficient bandwidth for sensors. 

Uriella and Uhm had worked together on what the hybrids would probably refer to as a 'surveillance 
botnet'. Billions of hybrid built personal computing devices involuntarily working as Dammon sensors.
</p><p>
Ugh had helped halt the rapid development of hybrid society by giving hybrids more technology
ourselves. The hybrids had a fragile economic system and Ugh had also been working on destabilizing 
that. 

There were signs Ugh may be succeeding and if the fragile monetary system collapsed, 
projection were that with technologies getting conveniently lost in bankruptcies etc, 
the Archan council could set hybrid society back two or three generations technology wise.
</p><p>
Gabriela knew they could not hope to turn back the industrial revolution. Those millenniums were
lost. If only she could make the Dammons believe. After she learned the senate
had upped the stakes, she released a captured Dammon with all the horrific details.
</p><p>
Apparently the Dammons dismissed the information as trickery. Something that was to be expected
it would have been the type of trick her father could have pulled. The old reports that Raphael, a member 
of the original council had filed had made it trough the bureaucracy of the republics ministry
of suggestions. The report had been presented to the senate by a civil servant who understood 
very little about its content. 
The result was contrary to what Raphael had intended. The quarantine drones were now being 
replaced with full sized war drones. War drones were programmed for escalating retaliation.
This meant that any use of force against a war drone was met by that drone or its
peers with at least 4/3 the initially used force directed at the original source of the 
force or any of its peers. Hybrid culture was still many many millenniums from the ability to develop 
structural deescalating retaliation, the council knew that much. 
</p><p>
The senate apparently judged the hybrid development by their moon-landing ability. As normally
a society would develop deescalating retaliation long before their first walk
on one of their planets moons. For those civilizations an escalating war fleet would 
effectively be a call for negotiations. But for a primitive civilization
like that of the hybrids, an escalating war-fleet would doubtlessly result in
total war. total war that would have Woldera end up like Orus-5.
</p><p>
Than there was the Beluga issue, the aquatic intelligent pre-civ species that the hybrids 
referred to as Beluga wales had successfully partitioned to acquire a representation in senate
under the repressed civilization clause. The new Beluga senator left no chance unused to
argue that Hybrid civilization was a marionette civilization of pets used by an alien 
civilization to wage a secret war against her species. The Beluga senator was highly intelligent,
but she had not yet mastered all the subtleties of interstellar diplomacy. The Beluga situation
on Woldera did however not escape the attention of the senate, this while the Hybrids didn't
have a shadow of a clue that they were a threat to the habitat of a superior intelligence with a 
seat in the interstellar senate that was living on their planet. No clue that they were just inches away
from creating a situation that would give the repeated partitions for a second great flood for 
Woldera a solid chance of succeeding.
</p><p>

All and all the Dammons were creating the tool of their own demise.
All the council could do was try to keep the upper hand in their struggle against
the Dammons for as long as they could.
</p>
</section>
</body></html>
