<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>Copyright></title><link rel="stylesheet" href="style.css" type="text/css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>
<body>
<section class="frontmatter-rw Copyright-rw" epub:type="frontmatter copyright-page">
<div class="copyright-rw">
<p>
Copyright pibara, 2014
</p>
<p>
This creative work is copyrighted under the conditions as described by version 1 of 
the creative BitNym licence.<br/> Any to be commercially exploited directly or indirectly derived "final" work , as described in the Creative BitNym licence must  honor the below claims:
<ul>
  <li>donation : bitnym -&gt; 4%</li>
  <li>storyline : pibara -&gt; 4%</li>
  <li>cover design : mkink -&gt; 2%</li>
</ul> 
In addition to the above entitlements, discretionary increases to the above entitlements by the creator of derived work are encouraged.
</p>
<p>
Derived intermediate work must use this copyright notice, changed only in ways explicitly allowed 
by the Creative BitNym licence. It must copy the above royalty claims and copyright holders, 
but may claim additional royalties for enhancements or for conversion to different type of 
creative work as described by the "fiction" section of the Creative BitNym licence, and may 
discretionary increment the percentages of existing claims.
</p>
<p>
This work and any intermediate derived work may be freely distributed , shared and copied in its complete and unchanged form without charge as long as no compensation is asked or given for this act.
</p>
<p>
The copyright holder does not put any restrictions on the derivation of either commercial or open source final work from this work. Derived intermediate work may opt to replace this statement with a statement that prohibits either commercial or open source final work from being derived. It may also choose to prohibit the prohibition of either or both commercial and open final work.
</p>
<p>
The copyright holder does not solicit any donations as compensation for non-final consumer access to this work. Derived intermediate work may opt to replace this statement with a solicitation for donations as described in the Creative BitNym licence.
</p>
<p>            
The copyright holder does not limit the use of DRM technology in final work. 
Derived intermediate work may opt to replace this statement with a line prohibiting the use of DRM
in final work, or may prohibit the prohibition of DRM technology.
</p>
<p>
The complete text of the Creative BitNym licence can be found on http://pibara.github.io/bitnym/
</p>
</div>

</section></body></html>
